1". The correct answer is B. The preferred approach to a person in crisis is to take a
directive, authoritative stance (A) using techniques such as suggestion and advice giving.
However, the interview should begin with a gentler approach to engage the client, then
building to the more powerful stance. That's why answer B is better than answer A. C is
incorrect because people in crisis need structure. Allowing too much ventilation and self-
exploration can lead to an increased sense of confusion and crisis. D is incorrect because
psychosocial approaches should be attempted before turning to anti-anxiety medications
unless the anxiety is posing an immediate threat to the client's health or ability to engage
in problem solving. There is no particular indication of this in the stem of the question.

2". The correct answer is A. Aggressive and threatening clients should be asked to sit
during interviews. A person is much more likely to strike out physically while standing
than while sitting. That's why B is incorrect. Instead of discharging pent up tension,
continued pacing might lead to an escalation of the client's tension. Of course, if you
attempt to have the client sit but he strongly refuses, the best thing to do is to stand
yourself. If you were to remain sitting that would suggest an unequal power balance
which can lead to an escalation. C is incorrect because it may not be necessary. The
approach described in A should be tried first. D is incorrect because it would be
inappropriate to call the police unless the client was presenting an imminent physical
threat. Such a threat is not evident from the question.

3". The correct answer is C. The law allows for such information to be provided to a
supervisor, and the law does not prohibit providing such information to a supervisor. A is
incorrect because an employer can establish policies which require you to document or
report various aspects of your work, even when your actions are mandated by law. The
employer is prohibited from interfering with your compliance with the law, but there is no
indication that the supervisor in this question is interfering. B is incorrect because there
is no prohibition against informing your supervisor about the content of the report. Your
clinical record will have to document the report anyway, and a supervisor normally has
access to clinical records of clients on a supervisee’s caseload. D is incorrect for the
same reason. There is no prohibition barring a supervisor from learning about clinical
information regarding clients on their supervisees’ caseloads.

4". The correct answer is D. A is incorrect because it draws too much of an untested
inference. You don't have enough information in the initial session to come to this
conclusion. B is incorrect because before looking to the child's developmental past you
should be clear about the nature of the present problem and situation. C is incorrect A

Page 276 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

because a simple, closed ended question about abuse is not likely to yield very 
meaningful information. D is correct because it will help to engage Mrs. James and give
her a sense of being listened to and, in the process of hearing her description of "the
complex problem" you will probably be able to gather important information, possibly
even picking up on indicators of abuse if that's occurring.

5". The correct answer is C. Harsh, overly severe discipline leads to the characteristics
described in this vignette. A is incorrect because overpermissiveness tends to lead to
selfishness, a demanding attitude, low frustration tolerance, lack of responsibility, and
inconsiderateness. B is incorrect because lack of discipline leads to inconsiderateness,
aggressiveness, and antisocial tendencies, none of which are described in the vignette. D
is incorrect because there is no relationship between hyperparathyroidism and the
interpersonal problems described here.

6". The correct answer is C. This is both a legal and ethical issue. Under California's
Welfare and Institutions Code, information about a client may be shared among staff
members within a program without the client's consent. However, the most ethical
approach, and the approach that will best support a sense of credibility and trust in your
relationship with the client is to inform the client that information will be shared. A is
incorrect. Some therapists and some programs might choose to take this approach, but it
is not necessary. B is incorrect because other professional staff are bound by the same
confidentiality requirements that apply to you, and if there are nonprofessional staff in the
program they should be bound by confidentiality policies and procedures of the program.
D is incorrect because the client should not be expected to repeat her story over and over
again with each staff member. Also, the client would not be in a good position to present
and explain your clinical inferences and impressions.

7". The correct answer is B. The Penal Code Sec. 11166 requires that “...a report shall
be prepared and sent even if the child has expired, regardless of whether or not the
possible abuse was a factor contributing to the death...” A is incorrect because the law
requires you to report abuse of a child even though the child is now deceased. SC is
incorrect because the report is required “regardless of whether or not the possible abuse
was a factor contributing to the death...” D is incorrect because mandated reports are not
subject to any individuals prior approval.

8". The correct answer is A. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “MFT’s respect the
rights of clients to make decisions and help them to understand the consequences of these
decisions.” B is incorrect because the code of ethics makes it clear that an MFT can
respect the client’s self-determination and still provide information about the potential
consequences of a decision. C is incorrect because this approach is very intrusive and
would violate the client’s confidentiality as well as his right to self-determination. D is
incorrect because there is insufficient information in the stem of the question to establish
that residential treatment is the appropriate level of treatment for this individual.
Outpatient therapy in combination with self-help group participation can often be just as

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 277

 

effective as residential treatment.

9". The correct answer is C. Conflict is normal as groups move past their orientation
stage and into their developmental stage of exploring and testing. By allowing the
conflict to unfold and helping members work through these conflicts toward resolution
you will be helping the group to establish its norms and roles in the process. A is
incorrect because, although respect for one another is a desirable norm, it should not be
used "instead of" conflict and disagreement. People need to engage in conflict and
disagreement respectfully. B is incorrect because the group needs to develop its own
indigenous leadership. That's the purpose of the exploring and testing phase of group
development. The group is not engaging in conflict and tension because of any lapse of
authority or leadership on the therapist's part; D is incorrect because the group needs to
work through its conflicts and establish cohesion before members will feel the necessary
security to attend to psychodynamic interpretations. In the exploring and testing stage
group members need to work through their conflicts, whether or not they understand them
psychodynamically.

10". The correct answer is A. Note the word "except" in the question. This technique
would only exacerbate the client's fear. It encourages too much of a focus on the
problem. The other three techniques are stages of the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
known as stress inoculation training. They are all positive and solution focused.

11". The correct answer is A. The Penal Code Sec. 11167 states that “Information
relevant to the incident of child abuse may also be given to an investigator from a child
protective agency who is investigating the known or suspected case of child abuse.” B is
incorrect because the law permits you to reveal information to a CPS investigator even
without a search warrant. The permission granted in the law is unconditional. C is also
incorrect because the permission granted in the law is unconditional. You have
permission to release the information even without the client’s consent. Ethically you
should ask the client for consent in this situation, but the question is about what the law
allows or requires, not what is ethically appropriate. D is incorrect because you can
release information to the investigator or anyone else with the client’s consent.

12". The correct answer is C. Memory loss plus loss of other cognitive functions (such
as difficulties following instructions or following the sequence of recipes) are
characteristic of Alzheimer's dementia. These cognitive symptoms might also occur in a
vascular dementia due to stroke, but this dementia is more likely to have a stepwise,
rather than steady, course of deterioration. Loss of function occurs at the time of each
stroke, but not steadily in between strokes. A is incorrect because amnestic disorder only
involves memory loss without concomitant loss of other cognitive functions. D is
incorrect because brain injury would not involve a gradual steady course of deterioration.

13". The correct answer is D. Group composition should strive for a balance between
homogeneity and heterogeneity. That's why you should have a mix of men and women.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 278 . MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

With six of the members at a limited level of psychological sophistication it is best not to
introduce a sophisticated member. That person would not likely relate well to the others
and would be vulnerable to scapegoating and becoming an early drop out. A is incorrect
because of the reasons just stated. B is incorrect because the next two members should be
women, in order to achieve better heterogeneity regarding gender. This would especially
be useful in a group dealing with anxiety in interpersonal relations. C is incorrect
because of the need for better gender heterogeneity.

14". The correct answer is B. Note the words "most rapid" in the question. Continuous
reinforcement of a particular behavior leads to the most rapid acquisition of that behavior.
A is incorrect because the reward is not linked to the desired behavior. C is incorrect S
because, even though intermittent or occasional reinforcement leads to good resistance to
extinction, it is not the best way to quickly achieve new behaviors. D is incorrect because
it would lead to reinforcing the anxiety, thereby preventing the learning of self-assertive
behavior.

15". The correct answer is A. Self-congruent messages convey genuineness and are
likely to increase the client's sense of trust in you. B is incorrect because genuineness
does not require that you express everything you think and feel; only that what you do
express is genuine. C is incorrect because this stance will not necessarily promote trust
and credibility. D is incorrect because the client will not likely be open to your
transference interpretations unless some relationship and trust building work is first
accomplished.

16". The correct answer is D. Those who specialize in working with posttraumatic stress
disorder are generally able to achieve significant improvement in less than eight months
when using appropriate intervention techniques. D recognizes that not all therapists are
well suited to working with all clients. A and B are incorrect because doing more of the
wrong thing is not likely to be helpful. C is incorrect because there is no particular
indication that a family therapy approach is beneficial with posttraumatic stress disorder,
whereas evidence exists for the efficacy of other techniques such as imaginal flooding,
relaxation techniques and Eye Movement Desensitization Therapy.

17". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. Specific phobia is
already ruled out by virtue of the fact that the client's anxiety is not triggered by any
apparent stressor or other stimulus. A, B, and C are incorrect because mitral valve
prolapse, PMS and hyperthyroidism can all cause panic attack symptoms.

18". The correct answer is A. If, in your clinical judgment, an individual requires
inpatient hospitalization to protect his health and safety you should take action to achieve
that objective regardless of payment coverage. B is incorrect because this action is in
conflict with your clinical judgment regarding a life threatening matter. You would be
vulnerable to malpractice liability for taking this action. C is incorrect because it would
be inappropriate to keep a person in an emergency service beyond the imminent

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

n_..__._-_..__p-

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 279

 

emergency. Psychiatric emergency services are generally limited to stays of 24 hours or
less, an insufficient time to accomplish the stated objectives for this case. D is incorrect
because A is a better answer. You need to let the client know that you recommend
hospitalization based on your assessment.

19". The correct answer is B. People with schizophrenia commonly experience
depression during the residual phases that occur between acute psychotic episodes. It is
at these times that suicide is most likely. Of course, a schizophrenic person should be
monitored for suicide risk under all conditions specified in the various response options,
but B is the best answer.

20". The correct answer is C. Behavior modification, in combination with family
therapy, is the treatment of choice for conduct disorder, the diagnosis most indicated in
this question. A is incorrect because this is an expensive approach requiring separation of
the child from his family and natural support network. A less intense, less restrictive
approach should first be tried while living at home. B is incorrect because, even though
neuroleptic medication is sometimes used to treat the aggressive, negative and hostile
behavior of a conduct disorder, it is not the preferred treatment approach. Also, note that
a marriage and family therapist should not refer a client for a specific kind of medication.
An MFT should refer for a medication evaluation, with the physician determining the
kind of medication that will be used to treat the symptom. D is incorrect because Eye
Movement Desensitization Therapy is a treatment for posttraumatic stress disorder, not
conduct disorder.

21". The correct answer is D. California's child abuse reporting law applies to the
individual practitioner and not to the agency where he or she works. Your supervisor
does not have the legal authority to prevent you from making a mandated report. A is
incorrect because, by virtue of having formed a reasonable suspicion prior to speaking
with your supervisor it became necessary for you to make a report. Following your
supervisor's instructions would be a violation of the law on your part. B is incorrect
because you would need to make the report (as indicated in answer D) regardless of the
outcome of your appeal to the higher authority. That appeal may help you deal with the
conflict between you and your supervisor, but it does not influence your need to make the
report. C is incorrect because a report became necessary when you formed your
reasonable suspicion, regardless of anything you might learn from the client's father. If
you only had a vague suspicion or hunch about child abuse and you needed to gather
further information before formulating a reasonable suspicion, then an interview with the
father might be helpful, but those are not the circumstances described in this question.

22". The correct answer is C. Anorexia, nausea and abdominal pain are common side
effects of CNS stimulants such as Cylert, Ritalin and Dexedrine used in the treatment of
ADHD. A is incorrect because the client's recognition that she thinks she is “too skinny”
reflects a normal body image and healthy concern about her weight. This is inconsistent
with a diagnosis of anorexia nervosa. B is incorrect because a bulimic's weight tends to

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 280 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

wax and Wane around their normal weight, not leading to an overall weight loss. D is
incorrect because the excessive activity of ADHD does not tend to lead to weight loss
unless something else happens (such as medication side effects) to impair appetite.

23". The correct answer is A. You should follow this practice whenever a second
therapist is involved with a borderline client, whether or not the client requests the
contact. As in any case, the contact should, of course, be made with the client's consent.
B and C are incorrect because they only call for a single contact with the doctor at a point
in time, rather than regular contacts. C is also incorrect because it assumes that the doctor
requires such advice. This approach would likely be taken by therapists who have already
fallen prey to the client's splitting. D is incorrect because, although you shouldn't agree to
try to get the doctor to improve her bedside manner, you shouldn't refuse to speak with
the doctor at all. The second part of answer D would be an appropriate intervention, that
is, to encourage the client to express her concerns to the doctor directly.

24". The correct answer is C. Business and Professions Code Sec. 2290.5, which
addresses “telemedicine” states “Prior to the delivery of health care via telemedicine, the
health care practitioner who has ultimate authority over the care or primary diagnosis of
the patient shall obtain verbal and written informed consent from the patient...” This is
followed by a list of the issues which must be addressed in the consent. A is incorrect
because the law does not require both verbal and written informed consent from an adult
psychotherapy client unless that person will be receiving.“telemedicine.” B is incorrect
because the consent must be both verbal and written. D is incorrect because the law
specifies what information must be addressed in the consent, but it does not require that
any specific form or format be used.

25". The correct answer is C. Clarifying role expectations is a standard component of
the engagement process. Your client should be able to hear the reasons for your opinion
and may change his mind after thinking it through. A is incorrect because it leaves the
client without the benefit of your informed opinion and it means that you would be
providing what you believe to be an inappropriate and ineffective service. B is incorrect
because your client should be able to hear the reasons for your informed opinion whether
or not he thinks to ask. D is incorrect because the client might change his mind after
hearing and discussing your perspective. D, however, would be appropriate if you
express your opinion and the client still clearly prefers the short term behavioral
approach.

26". The correct answer is B. The client is in crisis and feeling overwhelmed by a sense
of chaos and confusion. The approach described in B gives her a chance to gain a
cognitive grasp on her life and focus on specific solutions. A is incorrect because the
client is in crisis and seeking to restore a sense of security and balance in her life.
Furthermore, you don't have enough information to know whether or not her marriage
relationship was characterized by dependency. C is incorrect because the client did not
come to see you for spiritual advice and you don't know whether or not she is oriented to

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 28 1

 

this kind of approach. D is incorrect because it's not clear that the client is making a
transference based bid for inappropriate dependency.

27". The correct answer is A. You need to form an opinion as to the validity of Bonnie's
claim. You can best do that by interviewing Bonnie. B is incorrect because you do not
have sufficient information to support a reasonable suspicion of abuse since you have not
yet heard directly from Bonnie. C is incorrect because Meg's husband would probably
deny the charge whether he committed the abuse or not. You would be able to learn more
by interviewing the daughter. D is incorrect because you have an ethical obligation to
look into Bonnie's concerns as an individual, whether or not you also practice from a
family systems perspective.

28". The correct answer is C. Mr. J's inability to carry out simple tasks in addition to his
memory impairment suggest dementia of the Alzheimer's type. His recent personality
change is probably due to organic causes. A is incorrect because amnestic disorder
involves a loss of memory without any other cognitive impairment, whereas Parkinson's .
disease involves motor tremors. B is incorrect because delirium involves a disturbance of
consciousness and orientation. Note that primary degenerative dementia is the DSM-IIIR
term for what is now labeled dementia of the Alzheimer's type. D is incorrect because
rumination disorder and reactive attachment disorder are syndromes of early childhood.

29". The correct answer is D. Mr. T may be rambling and drifting as a resistance or
because a clear treatment focus has never been agreed to between therapist and client.
The approach described in D would help address either problem. A is incorrect because
there already appears to be an excess of ventilation and because persistent ventilation is
just as likely to arouse problematic feelings, or even be a distraction from dealing with
certain feelings, as it is likely to provide a release. B is incorrect because simply listening
will not provide the needed structure at this point in time. C is incorrect because the
problem of rambling and drifting can be readily addressed through dialogue without the
need for such a structured and behaviorally focused technique.

30". The correct answer is D. The AAMFT Code of Ethics Sec. 2.2 states “When
providing couple, family or group treatment, the therapist does not disclose information
outside the treatment context without a written authorization from each individual
competent to execute a waiver.” A is incorrect because authorization from each
individual is required when providing couple, family or group treatment and because the
authorization must be written. B is incorrect because authorization is required from each
participating individual competent to execute a waiver. C is incorrect because the
authorization must be written.

31". The correct answer is A. Battered women need to be reassured that the battering is
not their fault and that nobody deserves to be battered. B is incorrect because the effect
of battering is cumulative and battering tends to increase in intensity over time. C is
incorrect because, although a battering husband will commonly blame his wife in an

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 282 RMFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

attempt to give excuses for the battering, the battering is not the woman's fault and is not
triggered by any particular behavior on her part. D is incorrect because a report to the
police may bring both positive and negative consequences for your client. Your client
needs to freely decide whether or not to take such a step, because she is the one who will
have to bear those consequences.

32". The correct answer is C. This is both a legal and ethical issue. Your client has the
right to have this information kept confidential and the right to self-determination. A is
incorrect because, even though this may be one good option for your client it may also put
her at risk and she may not be ready to make such a move. B is incorrect because no
report is mandated under California law unless the client has come to you for treatment of
the physical injuries resulting from the assaults. That is not the case here. Without such
a mandate it would be a violation of the client's confidentiality and right to self-
determination if you were to make this report. D is incorrect because this course of action
will reveal to the husband that your client has informed you of his behavior. She has
indicated that this might pose a threat for her. This course of action is very likely to be
ineffective and to precipitate violence on the part of the husband.

33". The correct answer is C. The Business and Professions Code Sec. 2290.5 requires
that a telemedicine client be provided, both verbally and in writing, with information
which includes “A description of the potential risks, consequences, and benefits of
telemedicine.” A is incorrect because the therapist has no obligation to begin using face
to face interviews. If a client becomes dissatisfied with telemedicine the therapist is free
to provide the client with referrals to other therapists who would be willing and able to
see the client on a face to face basis in order to address any significant remaining unmet
needs. Of course, the therapist would also have the option of continuing to see the client
on a face to face basis, but would not be required to do so. B is incorrect because the
BBS does not provide such a pamphlet and, even if it does develop such a pamphlet, the
law doesn’t require that it be provided to the client. D is incorrect because the law
specifies what information must be provided to the client, whether or not the client asks
for this information. Of course, this doesn’t preclude the therapist from answering any
additional questions that the client might have.

34". The correct answer is A. High levels of expressed emotion from family members of
people with schizophrenia is correlated with decompensation and hospitalization. B is
incorrect because it is much more likely that the high levels of expressed emotion are
causing the decompensations than any other particular set of events. By following the
course described in answer B you may be encouraging the family to become even more
enmeshed in trying to manage Bill's life and the day to day course of events in the family.
C is incorrect because there is no indication that Bill wants to live away from home. The
support he is getting may contribute greatly to his health and well being, even though he
could benefit from less emotionally intense involvement. D is incorrect because longer
hospital stays generally do not contribute to greater aftercare stability and may, in fact,
promote institutional dependency and disruptions in the client's life.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 283

 

35". The correct answer is B. In order to prove a cause effect relationship you need to
use an experimental design involving a control group, pretests and posttests. None of the
answers will accomplish that, and it would be expensive and impractical to attempt such a
research design in day to day practice. However, the approach described in B is sufficient
to evaluate progress for clinical purposes. A is incorrect because consumer satisfaction is
not necessarily a measure of effectiveness in symptom reduction. C is incorrect because
it is an expensive and impractical approach. D is incorrect because even though such
testimonials may prove to be an effective marketing technique they do not provide
objective evidence of client progress toward treatment plan objectives.

36". The correct answer is D. The Penal Code states that “A telephone report of a
known or suspected instance of child abuse shall include the name of the person making
the report, the name of the child, the present location of the child, the nature and extent of
the injury, and any other information, including information that led that person to
suspect child abuse, requested by the child protective agency.” You are not required to
identify the perpetrator unless the child protective agency asks for that information. All
other information listed in this question must be provided whether it is requested or not.

37". The correct answer is A. In Cognitive Therapy your role is primarily that of a
teacher. The client is a learner. B is incorrect because this kind of relationship is more
appropriate to a psychodynamic approach of self-discovery. C is incorrect because this
kind of approach is better suited to a behavioral approach with a person who has conduct
problems. D is incorrect because, even though you might want to bring these qualities to
all kinds of therapeutic relationships with clients, they do not capture the primary
features of a Cognitive Therapy approach, as the question asks you to do.

38". The correct answer is A. This fact is based on empirical research that shows
African Americans score higher than others on these two scales, even in the relative
absence of corresponding clinical features of true paranoia (vigilance, delusional thought,
distrust, and suspicion) or schizophrenic features (psychotic break with reality, alienation,
impaired self-identity and isolation).

39". The correct answer is A. B and C are incorrect because projective testing may
detect use of projection as a defense mechanism, but it is not particularly designed for this
purpose. Generally you should be able to identify a client's use of defense mechanisms
through clinical observation during sessions. Psychometric testing should only be used in
exceptional cases where a particular diagnostic dilemma is present. D is incorrect
because most people are not aware of their use of defense mechanisms. Only a
psychologically sophisticated client who has learned about their use of defense
mechanisms through prior training or therapy would likely be able to answer such a direct
question accurately.

40". The correct answer is C. A second person should be present when interviewing
anyone with a high potential for imminent violence. A is incorrect because most experts

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 284 MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

who deal with violent clients recommend that you heed your gut feelings. Also, there
probably wouldn't be time for use of standard measures in the event of escalating
violence. B is incorrect because sitting behind a desk will likely leave you boxed in or
cornered in case you are attacked. D is incorrect because the client's history of Violent
behavior and exposure to the violence of others is important information in assessing
current and future potential for violence.

41". The correct answer is A. A is correct because you don't have the power to assure
clients of the behavior of others. Therefore, in group therapy there is a risk that other
clients will reveal a client’s private information. B is incorrect for this "reason. C is
incorrect because you don't have the authority to require such confidentiality. You can
and should encourage clients to agree among themselves and with you that they will
preserve the confidentiality of others in the group, and you may use an oath of
confidentiality if you choose to. But you can't assure group members that each other
member will adhere to their agreements. D is incorrect because you should encourage
group members to agree to maintaining confidentiality, rather than simply encouraging
each to come to their own position about this important value.

42". The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because a marriage and family therapist has
an ethical obligation to adhere to commitments made to employers and employing
organizations in terms of an employment contract, just as would be true in any contract.
An employee does not have the authority to redefine an organization's mission. That is
the responsibility of its board of directors. Acceptance of the organization's mission is
considered to be an aspect of the employment contract. C is incorrect because it describes
a supervisor and employee in collusion to commit a deception or fraud against the
employing organization. A supervisor does not have the authority to change an agency’s
mission, nor to misrepresent an employee’s work. D is incorrect for the same reason that
A is incorrect. An employee does not have the authority to redefine an organization's
mission, even if the employee’s clients agree. B is a course of action that keeps your
commitment to the employment organization, yet allows for a responsible and ethical
course of change.

43". The correct answer is D. Caffeine intoxication can cause all of the symptoms
described in the question. A is incorrect because tobacco use does not cause these
symptoms. Similar symptoms may be caused by nicotine withdrawal, but this syndrome
would not likely last as long as four months. B is incorrect because it is very unlikely that
traumatization as a child would cause the emergence of these anxiety related symptoms
four months ago. Even though that is possible, excessive caffeine use is a more likely
cause and, therefore, the better answer. C is incorrect because, although cultural
orientation may influence the way in which symptoms are manifest, caffeine intoxication
is more likely than culture to be a direct cause of the symptoms described in the question.
People of all cultures might manifest these symptoms if they use excessive caffeine.

44". The correct answer is B. Irritability is a sign of depression in children. A is

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 285

 

incorrect because manic episodes are unusual before late adolescence. C is incorrect
because a developmentally normal seven year old does not manifest these symptoms of
irritability. D is incorrect because the symptom pattern does not reflect any of the
specific impulse control disorders such as kleptomania, pyromania, pathological
gambling or trichotillomania. Impulse control disorders involve recurrent failure to resist
a particular kind of impulse, an increasing sense of tension before the impulsive act, and
gratification or a sense of relief at the time of committing the act or soon after. These
features are not suggested by the question.

45". The correct answer is D. This is a standard approach to treating this disorder, as
identified in published clinical management guidelines. A is incorrect because family
therapy has no demonstrated efficacy with dissociative identity disorder. B is incorrect
because dissociative identity disorder is not a psychotic disorder involving delusions,
hallucinations or thought disorder. Antipsychotic medications are not indicated. C is
incorrect because Cognitive Therapy has no demonstrated efficacy with this disorder.
Proponents of Cognitive Therapy generally do not View this disorder primarily as a
problem needing cognitive restructuring.

46". The correct answer is D. Cognitive behavioral treatments are now favored for the
treatment of panic disorder. One reviewer of Cognitive Behavioral treatments for panic ,
disorder found that 80% or more of clients achieve panic free status, and this is
maintained on follow up studies. No other treatment approach has demonstrated similar
effectiveness. That's why A, B, and C are incorrect. Systematic desensitization is useful
with a variety of anxiety disorders in which specific stimuli trigger the anxiety, but that is
essentially not the case with panic disorder.

47 ". The correct answer is C. In biofeedback training the client learns to become
conscious of fluctuations in the activity of the organ or function that has been causing
them a problem, whether it be high blood pressure, heart rate, gastrointestinal activity,
muscle tension. Using this feedback, and through operant conditioning techniques, the
client learns to control their physiological functions. It involves operant conditioning
because the feedback serves as reinforcement as it provides a sense of control and
improved health. Using this technique one can lower his or her heart rate, decrease blood
pressure, treat tension headaches, reduce muscle tension, redirect blood flow, or decrease
the level of gastric acid secreted. A is incorrect because it is not possible to observe these
physiological functions in another person, therefore they cannot be modeled. B is
incorrect because eye movement desensitization is used to treat symptoms resulting from
trauma. D is incorrect because imaginal flooding is a technique used to extinguish
anxiety responses that were initially learned in response to a traumatic event.

48". The correct answer is A. Orgasmic potential in Women, and erectile functioning in ‘
men are associated with the amount of blood flowing to the genital area. Therefore, in
women Kegel exercises (tightening vaginal muscles) are used to increase blood flow. B

is incorrect because Kegel exercises involve the vaginal muscles. C and D are incorrect

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 286 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

because vaginal blood flow is unrelated to social or cognitive functioning in these
disorders.

49". The correct answer is C. You are an agent of your client, not of your client’s culture
or cultural community. A is incorrect because you do not have the right to expose your
client during sessions to anyone from whom the client wants to maintain confidentiality
and independence. The father and uncle interpret their culture’s values as meaning that
they should be allowed to sit in on your client’s sessions. Your client may interpret his
culture’s values as meaning that his father and uncle should be supportive of his need for
autonomy. B is incorrect because you have an ethical obligation to be sensitive to your
client’s experience of his or her culture, not to a third party’s interpretation of that culture.
D is incorrect because it is a deceptive way of including the father and uncle in the
client’s case that will inevitably require you to communicate with these family members
about your client. This is something the client has explicitly prohibited.

50". The correct answer is A. There is a consensus in the literature that at least the
initial phase of treatment should include concurrent treatment for both disorders. This
view is often referred to as the "dual primary diagnosis" perspective. It is the notion that
both syndromes may interact to exacerbate each other. If the depression is, in fact, due to
the substance use it may not fully clear until the substance abuse treatment is successful.
However, gains in depressive symptom reduction might still be achieved during a
concurrent treatment approach. B and D are incorrect because, if treatment of the
depression were withheld until abstinence was achieved, then it may not be possible to
address depressive symptoms such as low self-esteem and social withdrawal that might
increase suicide risk. C is incorrect because, if you are correct in your impression that the
depression is due to the substance use, you will not be able to successfully resolve the
depression while the client is still abusing substances.

51". The correct answer is A. Attendance at A.A. meetings provides important structure
and support to alcoholics working on their recovery. B and C are incorrect because use of
prescribed medication is acceptable within A.A. A.A. literature clearly states that "the
only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking." Many substance abuse
treatment programs do not accept clients who use prescribed medication, but this is not
the case in twelve step meetings. D is incorrect because there is no inherent
incompatibility and the community standard of practice across the country supports
combined use of psychotherapy and A.A.

52". The correct answer is C. This client presents with the symptoms of a borderline
personality disorder. Rather than support the client in her swings from optimism to
pessimism, you should stay focused on "the middle ground". That means bringing up
both the positive and negative side of life, regardless of which side the client is tending to
focus on at the moment. This supports a realistic and well balanced perspective. A and B
are incorrect because they both take the client's temporary false positive view of the
moment and will serve as a set up for failure and conflict when the client soon swings

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 287

 

back to the pessimistic view. D is incorrect because this client's recent good feelings may
not necessarily be the result of therapeutic resolution of her problems.

53". The correct answer is C. A and B are incorrect because they maintain your lack of
self congruence. This will undermine your client's sense of trust in you, especially since
you are likely to be showing subtle signs of your annoyance in spite of your efforts at
suppression. D is incorrect because your direct expression of hostility will undermine the
trusting and therapeutic relationship you are trying to develop. C is correct because it
should be possible to inform the client of your annoyance in a way that does not seek to
hurt the client. (Hostility seeks to hurt the other person.) This kind of self-disclosure is
acceptable in therapy, even though self-disclosure about your personal life outside of
sessions is not appropriate.

54". The correct answer is B. This client should be allowed to accept or reject therapy,
but her decision should be based on being informed about its implications. You would be
subject to legal liability if you failed to inform the client about the risks involved in
rejecting treatment. A is incorrect because psychotherapy does not involve giving advice
about a client's major life decisions. C is incorrect because there is no indication that the
client poses an imminent risk of suicide. Imminent risk would be required for an
involuntary hold. The client's statement that she does not want to die is an indication that
her risk is not imminent. D is incorrect because contacting a family member would be
intrusive and a violation of the client's confidentiality.

55". The correct answer is C. A and B are incorrect because either mental or physical
factors, or both, are seen as capable of causing either mental or physical “symptoms.” D
is incorrect because both mental and biological functioning can be affected by spiritual
factors, just as they can both be affected by physical factors. As in many ethnic cultures,
the emphasis is on the integration of mind and body.

56". The correct answer is C. Confidentiality in federally funded substance abuse
treatment programs is addressed in the 42 CFR (Code of Federal Regulations). These
regulations permit sharing of information within a program (that is, among program staff)
even without the client's explicit consent. Good practice, however, calls for informing the
client that such information sharing will occur. A and B are incorrect because the client's
consent is not required. Note that these answers use the word "must," referring to a
requirement. If answer A instead used the word "should" then it would be correct, just as
C would be correct. Neither would be a better answer. D is incorrect because federal
regulations permit such sharing of information for purposes of well integrated service
delivery.

57". The correct answer is A. Treatment services should not be provided to an
individual without their consent, and that means informed consent. Informed consent
means that the client is made aware of the nature and purpose of the service, its risks (if
any), the probability of success, the reasonable therapeutic alternatives, and the

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

A Page 288 "MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

foreseeable consequences if the client refuses the available services. B is incorrect
because, even though Behavior Modification is one reasonable therapeutic alternative, it
is not the only one. A is a better answer. C is incorrect because the request is not
inappropriate and because, even if it were inappropriate, other services should be offered
before refusing service altogether. D is incorrect because, although it may be appropriate
to provide the requested service, this should be done only after the conditions in A are
met and only if the client still prefers Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy. A is, therefore, a
better answer.

58". The correct answer is B. This approach respects the client's right to self-
determination and protects you from liability. A is incorrect because the information
given does not indicate that Mr. B is an imminent danger to self or others or gravely
disabled...only that his is "thinking about suicide." Most people who think about suicide
do not pose an imminent risk. C is incorrect because this would be a violation of
confidentiality and privileged communication protections. D is incorrect because it is
deceptive. You might have to arrange for Mr. B's hospitalization if it becomes clinically
indicated.

59". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. Clients should be
informed of the conditions under which information may be disclosed without consent,
such as mandated reports and duty to warn. However, this information is best presented
in a Notice of Information Practices which should be presented to the client upon entering
treatment as required by federal HIPAA regulations. The information does not need to be
repeated in each written consent to release information that arises over the course of
treatment. A, B, and C are all commonly required conditions of a written consent to
release information. C refers to the fact that written consents should not be open ended.
A written consent must state that the consent is no longer valid after a certain date or after
a certain condition occurs.

60". The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because obtaining consent is your
responsibility and is not at issue for the agency receiving the information. C is incorrect
because your records should indicate what information is objectively known, what is your
opinion, and what is known by client report. Further cautionary statements are not
needed. D is incorrect because your compliance with the law should be assumed and
does not need to be explicitly stated. B is the best answer because the consent you have
obtained from the client should authorize you and/or your agency to release information.
Under most circumstances the consent should not be worded so as to be extended to other
third parties.

61". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. D is the best
answer because it is untrue. A variety of treatment programs specifically designed to
achieve “harm reduction” have demonstrated their effectiveness. Harm reduction refers
to the lessening of mental disorder symptoms while a person is still using a substance. A
is incorrect because it is very difficult to determine whether symptoms are substance

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009
MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 289

 

induced or due to a primary mental disorder because any of the primary disorder
symptoms can be mimicked by the effects of substances. B is incorrect because denial is
a common aspect of chemical dependency. Denial interferes with a client’s full
commitment to aspects of the treatment plan that are related to managing or eliminating
substance use. C is incorrect because the fields of mental health and substance abuse
treatment have been segregated for many years. Separate funding streams for service
programs, and separate training programs have yielded a cadre of specialists on one side
or the other. Few have been properly training in addressing the interrelated needs of a
dually diagnosed, or multiply diagnosed, individual.

62". The correct answer is A. The Penal Code states that the identity of all persons who
report under the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act shall be confidential, although it
allows for release “between child protective agencies” and certain others such as the
district attorney or county counsel. The police are considered to be a child protective
agency under this act. B and C are incorrect because the law does not allow release to the
press or to the County Health Officer. D is incorrect because the Penal Code holds this
information confidential and it is not a matter of open public record.

63". The correct answer is D. The Welfare and Institutions Code Sec. 15610.23
provides a very vague definition of a “dependent adult” as “any person residing in this
state, between the ages of 18 and 64 years, who has physical or mental limitations that
restrict his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her rights...” A
and B are incorrect because, under this law, a dependent adult is under the age of 65, and
because neither conservator, public guardian, nor “serious physical or mental disorder”
are required. C is incorrect because a person can be a dependent adult without being
currently under the care of a physician and without having an acute condition. A chronic
condition that is not being treated by a physician would qualify if it was restricting the
persons ability “to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her rights.”

64". The correct answer is B. Note the word "except" in the question. People
experiencing dhat do not have hallucinations. All other symptoms listed in this question
are characteristic of this culture bound syndrome.

65". The correct answer is A. A cost-benefit analysis looks at both effectiveness (how
well a goal has been achieved) and efficiency (how much resources were used to achieve
the effectiveness). This is the only answer that addresses the efficiency issue. B is
incorrect because an outcome effectiveness study focuses only on effectiveness. C is
incorrect because a consumer satisfaction survey provides little information about the
extent to which resources were expended. (It may, however, contain some information
about outcome effectiveness.) D is incorrect because a community needs assessment
study usually looks at unmet need, not outcome effectiveness or efficiency.

66". The correct answer is C. The Bender Gestalt test is a visual motor test in which an
individual copies geometric patterns. Of those tests listed in the four possible answers, it

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

Page 290 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

is the only one that focuses on the issue of neuropsychological evaluation. It is concerned
with how central nervous system dysfunctions correlate with specific performance
deficits such as information processing and fine motor skills. A is incorrect because
intelligence tests may address information processing but not fine motor skills. B is
incorrect because The Achenbach Checklist addresses issues of social competence and
behavior that might be significant in social situations. D is incorrect because sentence
completion tests are generally used to address personality issues, not information
processing or fine motor skills.

67". The correct answer is B. New groups usually focus on the therapist as leader during
the initial sessions. The group has not had sufficient time to develop its own leadership,
as it will when it works through the stage of exploration and testing. A is incorrect
because group members will likely behave this way even if members have a healthy
internal locus of control. C is incorrect because the group would behave this way even if
you were not directive and authoritative. D is incorrect because cohesion is not likely to
appear in a group until a variety of developmental tasks are worked through. This would
not be expected during the initial sessions. With sufficient attention to these
developmental tasks, even a group that begins by focusing on the leader will progress to
members focusing on one another.

68". The correct answer is A. The AAMFT Code of Ethics requires that an MFT
“maintain accurate and adequate clinical and financial records.” California state law
requires that an MFT “keep records consistent with sound clinical judgment, the
standards of the profession, and the nature of the services being rendered.” B is incorrect
because the client is entitled to having a thorough record kept of the services provided. B
is also incorrect because keeping minimal documentation in order to protect against the
therapist’s own potential liability is a violation of the spirit of the AAMFT Code of Ethics
standard which states that “Marriage and family therapists do not use their professional
relationships with clients to further their own interests.” The record should be kept in a
manner which protects the client’s interests even if that is at odds with protecting the
therapist’s interests. C is incorrect because professional standards call for a thorough
record in support of making and keeping track of sound clinical judgment. It is more than
a fiscal document. D is incorrect because, under California law, any document kept in
reference to a therapy client is considered to be part of the clinical record, whether or not
it is all kept in the same formal folder. All such documentation is accessible to the client
under California’s Patient Access to Records Act.

69". The correct answer is D. Note the word "least" in the question. Although it is
common for mourner's to think of the dead person as still alive and present in the house,
there is usually an "as if’ quality to the feeling. The person might say "I felt as if my
husband were still here." This is not a firmly held belief, as is the case with delusions. A
is incorrect because social withdrawal is common in bereavement. B is incorrect because
idealization of the deceased is also common, even in troubled relationships. C is
incorrect because depression is very common during bereavement. It is so common that

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 291

 

the DSM manual suggests that the diagnosis of major depression not be used for the first
two months of bereavement.

70". The correct answer is A. All of the traumatic events listed might precipitate a
posttraumatic stress disorder, and all of these events will probably lead to development of
some posttraumatic symptoms, even if the hall PT SD syndrome doesn't develop.
However, 50% to 80% of women who have been raped develop the full syndrome of
PTSD as compared, for example, to about 17% of those who experience natural disasters.
The rates for witnessing a murder and experiencing an automobile accident are not known
but are estimated to be below the prevalence for rape survivors.

71". The correct answer is C. California state law refers to such a practice as
misrepresenting the type or status of one’s license, qualifications or affiliation. This is a
form of “unprofessional conduct.” A is incorrect because no contract is involved in this
misrepresentation. B is incorrect because clarification assists a client to more accurately
understand reality. An MFT Intern is not really a psychologist, so even if a client thinks
he or she better understands the nature of the intern’s practice when it is referred to as the
practice of “psychology,” this would be a misunderstanding. D is incorrect because
collaboration is a sharing of information between professionals or others who have a
common goal.

72". The correct answer is D. The legal duty to warn does not apply in cases where a
client threatens to commit suicide. Therefore A, B and C are incorrect.

73". The correct answer is B. Locura refers to a severe form of chronic psychosis.
Individuals with symptoms of locura would likely be diagnosed with schizophrenia. A is
incorrect because bilis refers to a strong experience of anger or rage. There is an
assumption that such anger disturbs core body balances, leading to symptoms that might
include headache, trembling, screaming, and stomach disturbances. These symptoms
might be diagnosed as a somatoform disorder in this culture, which is not as debilitating
as schizophrenia. C is incorrect because ataque de nervios might refer to a variety of mild
to moderate symptoms which, in the mainstream American culture might be referred to as
a nervous breakdown. Symptoms might include crying, trembling, heat in the chest,
dissociation, a sense of being out of control, and verbal or physical aggression. In the
mainstream American culture these ataques might be seen as expressions of distress
which are not due to a mental disorder, or they might meet the criteria for anxiety, mood,
dissociative or somatoform disorders, none of which tend to be as severe as
schizophrenia. D is incorrect because mal de ojo, or “evil eye,” tends to include
symptoms such as fitful sleep, crying without apparent cause, diarrhea, vomiting, and
fever in a child. These symptoms are not as debilitating as the severe psychotic
symptoms of locura.

74". The correct answer is A. This individual’s stress is due to the conflict of roles
between that of a wife in a traditional family and that of a wage earner in the multicultural


BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 292 I MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

community. These circumstances might also be referred to as acculturation stress. B is
incorrect because there is no indication that this individual is taking a job outside the
home for purposes of challenging authority. There are many other kinds of reasons a
person might have for taking a job outside the home. C is incorrect because a cultural
idiom of distress is the way in which symptoms - for example, symptoms of depression
or anxiety - are expressed within a particular culture. The individual referred to in this
question is not necessarily experiencing symptoms of any kind. D is incorrect because an
adjustment disorder diagnosis may be applied to an individual experiencing role strain,
but only if the symptoms of distress are in excess of what would be expected for other
persons of the same age, gender and culture who are exposed to the same stressor. There
is no indication that this woman’s stress is unusual or excessive for a person of her
culture.

75". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. Object constancy
is developed during infancy. Answers A and C are both related to the developmental
conflict of "intimacy versus isolation" which characterizes the young adult years.
Individuation from family of origin is also an appropriate issue for many during this post-
adolescent developmental phase. Some may feel that a secure sense of individuation
should have been achieved before the age of 23, but it is closer to developmentally
appropriate for age 23 than is the establishment of object constancy. ‘

76". The correct answer is A. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states “Marriage and family
therapists disclose to clients and other interested parties, as early as feasible in their
professional contacts, the nature of confidentiality and possible limitations of the clients’
right to confidentiality. Therapists review with clients the circumstances where
confidential information may be requested and where disclosure of confidential
information may be legally required.” B is incorrect because state law creates many
limitations on confidentiality but it does not require that you inform the client of these
limitations. It is federal HIPAA legislation that requires you to inform the client of your
privacy practices, which includes information about limitations on confidentiality. C is
incorrect because state law does not require you to inform the client. D is incorrect
because the AAMFT Code of Ethics does require you to inform the client about
limitations on confidentiality.

77". The correct answer is B. The Family Code Sec. 5 929 states that “The treatment
plan of a minor authorized by this section shall include the involvement of the minor's
parent or guardian, if appropriate, as determined by the professional person or treatment
facility treating the minor.” If the therapist considers it to be inappropriate, then the
parent or guardian does not need to be involved if the therapist documents the reason why
it would not be appropriate. A, C and D are incorrect because these are requirements for
providing treatment to minors age 12 or older in general. These provisions do not apply
in cases where the minor is seeking counseling related to a drug or alcohol related
problem.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 293

 

78". The correct answer is C. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “informed consent
generally necessitates that the client....has provided consent that is appropriately
documented.” A is incorrect because you are not obliged to provide this much
information to every client in order to establish informed consent. Your license should be
made known to the client and must be posted at your place of practice, but one’s degree
and certified training experiences are not necessarily provided in order to establish
informed consent to treatment. B is incorrect because, even though the client must be
competent to give consent, most people with below average intelligence, that is, with IQ’s
below 100, are competent to consent to treatment. D is incorrect because, even though
you must provide information about treatment processes and procedures to the client in
terms understandable to the client, there is no explicit requirement that you require the
client to demonstrate the extent of their understanding to you. Even though there may, in
some cases, be some value to the principles addressed in answers B and D, C is the best
answer because appropriately documented consent is a specific and explicit requirement
of informed consent under the AAMFT Code of Ethics, and it applies to all cases.

79". The correct answer is B. Many people associate the development of an empathic,
non-judgmental relationship with Rogerian Client Centered Therapy or other humanistic
therapies. However, these relationship qualities are fundamentally important in most
approaches to psychotherapy, and their importance is explicitly recognized in the
literature on cognitive restructuring. A is incorrect because a genogram is a way of
graphically describing family relationships. C is incorrect because it is not necessary to
abstain from alcohol in order to benefit from cognitive restructuring therapy unless, of
course, the individual abuses alcohol and their substance abuse is exacerbating their
depression or interfering with their ability to engage in therapy. There is no reason to
assume that this is the case for the client described in the question. D is incorrect because
cognitive restructuring deals with current thoughts, not original causes of depression.
Also, this person's depression is not necessarily psychodynamically caused.

80". The correct answer is A. This client probably has an obsessive compulsive
disorder. Flooding and response prevention is a technique specifically designed for
treating this disorder, and its effectiveness has been empirically demonstrated; B is
incorrect because, even though supportive counseling may be helpful, it is not the best
answer. It is not specifically designed to treat the condition described in the question. C
is incorrect because Kegel exercises involve a tightening of the vaginal muscles to
increase blood flow. They are used in order to increase orgasmic potential in women. D
is incorrect because family therapy, like supportive counseling, is not specifically
designed to treat obsessive compulsive disorder. It may be helpful if family conditions
are substantially causing or contributing to the disorder, but this is not usually the case. A
is the better answer.

81". The correct answer is A. Binge eating and purging are associated with both
anorexia nervosa and bulimia, even though it is more characteristic of bulimia. One of
the sub-types of anorexia is known as the "binge eating/purging type" as distinguished

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 294   MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

from the "restricting type". D is incorrect because, even though rumination disorder
involves regurgitation, it is a disorder of early childhood and is not associated with binge
eating.

82". The correct answer is B. Splitting refers to a disturbance in the ego function of
object relations. It is characteristic of borderline personality disorder. It is not induced by
substance use or abuse. A is incorrect because "rebound depression" commonly occurs
among cocaine abusers. It is likely to be an associated feature of the substance related
disorder, rather than warranting a separate diagnosis of mood disorder. C is incorrect
because impairments in cognitive functioning are a common associated feature of alcohol
abuse. It probably would not warrant a separate diagnosis of cognitive disorder,
especially in a 35 year old. D is incorrect because phencyclidine (PCP) commonly causes
hallucinations. Such a visual hallucination in a PCP user probably would not warrant a
separate diagnosis of psychotic disorder. The hallucinations of a psychotic disorder such
as schizophrenia are much more likely to involve spoken words or other kinds of auditory
perceptions.

83". The correct answer is B. This legal principle is based on the M'Naughton Rule
which holds that a person is not guilty by reason of insanity if the person is laboring under
such a defect of reason, due to a mental disorder, that they did not know the nature and
quality of the act they were committing, or did not know the act was wrong. A is
incorrect because even a schizophrenic or bipolar individual may be found guilty if they
knew the nature of the act that they were committing and knew that it was wrong. C is
incorrect because killing in self-defense may lead to a not guilty verdict, but is not
associated with the verdict "not guilty by reason of insanity." D is incorrect because it is
possible that a person could be hallucinating and still know the nature and quality of an
act they are committing.

84". The correct answer is A. This is the only option that necessarily involves
dysfunctional behavior. B is false because the kind of homeostasis described here occurs
in both functional and dysfunctional families. C is incorrect because a dominant parental
coalition is a sign of a functional family. D is incorrect because physical contact is a
culturally appropriate way for parents to express affection and bonding to their children.
Sexual or abusive physical contact would be dysfunctional, but answer D only refers to
"physical contact."

85". The correct answer is C. A and B are incorrect because both "anxiety disorder
NOS" and "generalized anxiety disorder" are DSM diagnoses. The question states that
neither client meets the criteria for a DSM diagnosis. Therefore, recording either of these
disorders in order to obtain insurance coverage would be insurance fraud and a violation
of ethical principles. D is incorrect because, even though the clients might legitimately
qualify for a fee waiver under your agency's policies and procedures, you should not
attempt to relieve them of a fee responsibility simply because they claim that they can't
afford to pay. You should first review the couple's ability to pay with them to determine

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 295

 

whether or not you agree, in your own best judgment, that they cannot afford to pay.
Such a review will also give the clients a chance to consider their budget and priorities and, perhaps, come to a different conclusion.

86". The correct answer is A. While any person on medication might have compliance
problems, lack of bipolar patient compliance with lithium treatment is more problematic
than with any other prescribed psychotropic drug. Such clients desire the euphoria
associated with manic episodes and they often want to avoid the mental blunting and
other side effects of lithium treatment.

87". The correct answer is A. There is no stage of normal development commonly
associated with delusions. False beliefs of various kinds are common in early childhood,
and in adolescence, but these are not delusions. B is incorrect because illusions are not
unusual at any age, especially when under stress. They are especially common in
adolescence. C and D are incorrect because temper tantrums and oppositional behavior
are common in toddlerhood as the child learns to test limits and experiments with
autonomy.

88". The correct answer is D. Both assessment and self-demonstrations are core
purposes for play therapy. Play therapy is commonly used for assessment. It provides a
child with an opportunity to act out behavioral patterns, motivations and conflictual
themes which are then observable by the therapist. In the course of acting out one's inner
life these patterns, motivations and themes also become observable to the clients
themselves. Therefore, play therapy -- along with role plays, psychodrama, free
association, and structured fantasy -- are considered to be self-demonstrations. A is
incorrect because only medications can treat problems of serotonin uptake, which occurs
between nerve synapses. B is incorrect because cognitive restructuring is a more Verbal
and rational process used in cognitive behavioral therapy. C is incorrect because "in
vivo" implies that the baseline is being measured in the client's natural environment, not
in the artificial clinical environment of a play therapy situation.

89". The correct answer is C. As a rule, termination should be planned when objectives
have been achieved unless the client continues to present a serious clinical risk. There is
no evidence of such risk in this question. A or B may have been considered the best
answer twenty or thirty years ago, but not in view of the current standard of practice. D is
incorrect because this issue should have been addressed earlier during the assessment
phase of your work with the client, not in this later phase.

90". The correct answer is A. This is a fundamental principle of assessment in the
clinical practice of counseling and psychotherapy. B is incorrect because, even though it
is true that the client's relationship to you will be influenced by your authority, this will
still give you meaningful information about how the client relates to people in authority.
C is incorrect because the client is likely to be relating to you in terms of your gender,
your age, your personal style, your authority, and many other factors in addition to your

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 296 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

ethnic culture. Answer C would only be true for a client who was exceptionally bigoted
and, therefore, almost exclusively focused on your ethnicity. D is incorrect because, even
though it is true that the client's way of relating to you is influenced by transference, the
same is true for the client's way of relating to others as well. Transference is not
something that only happens in relationships with therapists.

91". The correct answer is B. Note the word "except" in the question. A, C and D are
required by the AAMFT Code of Ethics which states “Bartering for professional services
may be conducted only if: (a) the supervisee or client requests it, (b) the relationship is
not exploitative, (C) the professional relationship is not distorted, and (d) a clear written
contract is established.” The code of ethics does not require that the client have the
ability to pay cash.

92". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. A, B and C refer
to elements of a cultural formulation as presented in the DSM diagnostic manual. D is
correct because a cultural formulation may address how differences between the client’s
and clinician’s culture affect the client’s presentation of symptoms during sessions, but it
addresses the client’s actual understanding of neither his own nor the clinician’s culture.

93". The correct answer is A. Note the word "except" in the question. The purpose of
didactic instruction is to develop knowledge or skills, not conflict resolution. All of the
other answers are commonly used conflict resolution techniques.

94". The correct answer is D. The AAMFT Code of Ethics allows for such termination
in the standard which states “Marriage and family therapists assist persons in obtaining
other therapeutic services if the therapist is unable or unwilling, for appropriate reasons,
to provide professional help.” Such action is also consistent with the principle that
termination should be arranged when a client is failing to benefit from the services being
offered. Termination under these circumstances should not be precipitous, and should
always involve assistance to the client in making appropriate follow-up arrangements for
continued services elsewhere when necessary.\n
A is incorrect because ethical standards do allow for such termination. B is incorrect
because client abandonment involves precipitous termination without assisting the client
in finding alternative follow-up resources. Termination per se is not necessarily client
abandonment. C is incorrect because the termination does not need to be acceptable to
the client, as long as the client is informed of the termination well enough in advance to
be able to make alternative arrangements, and if the therapist assists in those alternative
arrangements as necessary.

95". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. A, B and C are
all symptoms of dissociation, as one might experience following a trauma. These are
listed as dissociative symptoms under the DSM diagnosis of acute stress disorder. D,
heart palpitations, might occur following a stressor but these physical symptoms are not

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 297

 

considered dissociative. A person with heart palpitations may or may not also have the
psychological experience of dissociation.

96". The correct answer is C. This client is using the kinds of self-statements that are
taught in Meichenbaum's Stress Inoculation Therapy, a cognitive behavioral approach
used to treat anxiety and depression. A is incorrect because obsessions and compulsions
are ego dystonic and nonfunctional. Your client's self-statements, however, are
functional, acquired with a functional purpose, and are ego syntonic. B is incorrect
because, even if your client's self-statements were obsessions, that would not indicate an
obsessive compulsive personality disorder. This personality disorder involves
perfectionism and a dysfunctional concern with orderliness and control. It does not
necessarily involve true obsessions. D is incorrect because this client presents no
evidence of the gross impairment of communication, reciprocal social relationships, or
limited repertoire of activities and interests that would indicate an autistic disorder.

97 ". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. Limit setting
should be done in a clear, explicit and direct fashion, not by asking questions. A is
incorrect because questions are effective at drawing one's attention to the issue that has
been asked about. B and C are incorrect because questions can be an indirect way of
making a statement. For example, "Do you notice how you begin to tremble whenever
you mention John?"

98". The correct answer is B. In Solution Focused interviewing, "exceptions" refers to
identifying the times in the client's life when the problem might have occurred but didn't.
This approach draws attention to the client's strengths, provides a clear and concrete
vision of the goal, and instills hope by demonstrating that the client's goal is possible. A
is incorrect because, instead of confronting resistance, this technique actually focuses the
client on the healthy, adaptive aspect of the personality. C is incorrect because, even
though this technique may reveal ambivalences, this is not its purpose. A focus on
ambivalences is more likely to be used in a treatment approach emphasizing the
development of a holistic sense of self-awareness and integrity. This approach focuses on
one's strengths. D is incorrect because, if anxiety is affected at all by this technique, the
effect would more likely be to reduce anxiety by instilling hope.

99". The correct answer is A. Note the word "except" in the question. In Solution
Focused interviewing goals should be perceived by the client as involving "hard work" so
that a sense of accomplishment is felt when achieved. This may appear to be in conflict
with another Solution Focused principle that well formed goals are small and, therefore,
readily attainable, but this second principle is more relevant to the therapist's perspective.
From the client's perspective the goal should be perceived as involving "hard work". B, C
and D are incorrect because these are all among the principles for well formed goals in
Solution Focused interviewing.

100". The correct answer is A. In a cohesive group, members are highly invested in

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009

Page 298 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

belonging to the group and committed to the members‘ common goals. Therefore they
care enough to try to influence one another, even as they respect one another's autonomy.
B is incorrect because members of cohesive groups are more likely, not less likely, to
change their minds to take on the view of others with whom they identify and trust. C is
incorrect because members of cohesive groups are more likely to persist in attacking
difficult goals. They draw strength from the group's support. It is not a distraction. D is
incorrect because members of cohesive groups feel less anxious during group activities.
They find support, not threat, in the group's interpersonal closeness.

101". The correct answer is A. Note the word "except" in the question. A is incorrect
because a high level of interaction increases the attractiveness of a group, even when that
interaction involves conflict. Conflict can be engaging and lead to mutually satisfactory
solutions if handled properly. Attractiveness to a group is also heightened in groups that
value the individual (B), and as members become aware of the qualities they have in
common (C) and the prestige of other members (D).

102". The correct answer is A. Using Minuchin's Structural Family Therapy approach a
sensitive therapist would be paying attention to all of these issues. However, the question
asks for the best answer. Which would you "be paying special attention to"? Also, note
that the question is asking about what you would pay attention to in order to assess the
family group's structure. Structure refers to the relatively stable patterns of relationship
between people. A focuses on stable patterns in the phrase "who tends to". These
tendencies are stable patterns. B is incorrect because it deals with only one aspect of a
family culture. C is incorrect because it does not really get at the concept of structure.
Both B and C would be of special interest to someone using Satir's Conjoint Family
Therapy. D is incorrect because it addresses a family's history, not its structure.

103". The correct answer is C. Anxiety is among the common reactions to crises, along
with a sense of shame or guilt, confusion and depression. Exceptional (unusual) reactions
include magical thinking, psychotic withdrawal from reality, progressive social
withdrawal, and agitated depression. It's not hard to understand how these symptoms
might arise for someone in crisis, but most people in crisis will not develop these
symptoms.

104". The correct answer is A. Family therapy, among other interventions, is considered
a treatment of choice for adolescent drug abusers. Family members are helped to
overcome co-dependent patterns and to focus on dealing with the chemically dependent
person's negative behaviors rather than trying to manage their substance use. B is
incorrect because the goal of fostering autonomy is too tangential to the greatest
immediate risk and problem, the chemical dependency and the family patterns that enable
it. Therapy should foster a healthy sense of boundaries within the family, including
respect for one another's autonomy. In chemical dependency treatment this is not
achieved by excluding family members. C is incorrect because methadone is used in the
treatment of heroin addiction. Most chemically dependent adolescents are not addicted to

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009
MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS I Page 299

heroin. D is incorrect because chemical dependency treatment focuses on changing
addictive behaviors, social relationships and social competencies. Character may well
develop in the process but it is not a primary focus, as it may be in psychoanalytic therapy
with an anxious or depressed individual.

105". The correct answer is D. Relaxation training plus cognitive and/or behavioral
techniques, such as graduated exposure, have been found to be more effective than
relaxation training alone. D is the best answer because it combines these interventions.
C is incorrect because anti-anxiety medications are problematic with generalized anxiety
disorder. Dependence and tolerance are problems. Even when medications reduce
anxiety they are not very effective in reducing avoidance responses. Medication is best
used only when the anxiety is so great that a person’s health is threatened, social
functioning is markedly impaired, or the anxiety is interfering with therapeutic
engagement.

106". The correct answer is C. The person with avoidant personality disorder is
painfully shy and fearful of rejection by others. Cocaine may be used by such a person
for the sense of confidence and diminished inhibitions that result. A is incorrect because
"self-medicating" implies that a particular symptom is being relieved by a particular drug.
Polydrug abuse is not that well focused. In a manic person such behavior would be a
manifestation of the manic episode, namely, the tendency to engage in pleasurable
activities that have a high probability of negative consequences. B is incorrect because
PCP use would exacerbate the schizophrenic's symptoms, not relieve them. Most
schizophrenic individuals will avoid PCP because its effect is very frightening. D is
incorrect because alcohol abuse is a manifestation of the antisocial personality disorder.
It fosters symptoms rather than relieve them.

107". The correct answer is A. The proper approach would be to discuss this issue
during the initial session in anticipation of this possibility. Failing to have done that the
best thing you could do would be to let the client determine whether or not any interaction
should take place. B is incorrect because such a conversation could be observed by a
family member or neighbor who might thereby become aware of your relationship with
this client. C is incorrect because most clients would take the greeting as an opening to a
conversation, and feel compelled to enter into conversation, thereby unnecessarily
revealing your relationship. D is incorrect because a family member or neighbor might
notice your careful observation which would reveal that there is some special relationship
between the two of you. Also, the client might notice your careful observation of her
which would likely be recognized as surprising and inappropriate.

108". The correct answer is B. Graduated exposure is a form of systematic
desensitization used to treat specific phobias and other conditions in which anxiety is
triggered by a particular stimulus. Although the technique might be used to deal with
anxiety in a person with any of the other conditions listed in the question, it is primarily
used to treat phobias.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 300 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

109". The correct answer is A. Note the word "except" in the question. A is correct
because this approach would only foster the self-consciousness that tends to inhibit
sensual pleasure in these disorders. It would make the problem worse. Education,
systematic desensitization, and use of masturbation are well established techniques for
treating these dysfunctions.

110". The correct answer is A. Welfare and Institutions Code Sec. 15610.63 states that
physical abuse includes “use of a physical or chemical restraint or psychotropic
medication...for a period beyond that for which the medication was ordered pursuant to
the instructions of a physician...” B is incorrect because there are times when use of a
physical restraint might be appropriate and necessary for an elder’s or dependent adult’s
protection. Physical restraint constitutes physical abuse when it is unreasonable restraint, p
when it constitutes battery or assault, or when it is being used for punishment. C is
incorrect because physical restraint for the purpose of preventing a dependent adult from
meeting with visitors constitutes isolation, not physical abuse. D is incorrect because
failure to protect an elder or dependent adult from health and safety hazards constitutes
neglect, not physical abuse.

111". The correct answer is C. Note the word "except" in the question. A, B and D list
standard elements of informed consent. C is the exception, because even though the
client has a right to be informed of the identity and general credentials of the person who
will be administering the treatment, it is not standard practice to inform the client of the
physician's training in a specific treatment method.

112". The correct answer is C. When conducting an assessment interview with a
sexually abused child you should begin with general questions and move on to specifics.
Also begin with less threatening questions before asking more threatening questions. A,
B and D should be asked before C because they are open ended, thereby allowing the
child latitude in how to formulate an answer. They also refer to general relationships and
activities, not specifically to the problematic sexual behavior.

113". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. Social control is
carried out by using rewards and punishments to enforce role expectations and rules, or
nonns. Of the four behaviors listed, tics is the least likely to serve this purpose since tics
are not particularly rewarding or punishing to another person, and they are not A
administered with a sense of intent or timing. Praise and expressions of affection (A and
B) are rewarding and subject to voluntary control. "Dirty looks" (C) are usually
punishing and subject to voluntary control.

114". The correct answer is B. In China, neurasthenia is referred to as “shenjing
shuairuo.” This condition was recognized in the DSM-II, but has since been removed
from American diagnostic manuals. It continues to be recognized by the intemational
ICD-10 diagnostic classification. A is incorrect because “susto” is a culture bound
syndrome of Latino cultures. It is more characterized by anxiety and a sense of fright, but

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 301

 

does also involve a loss of motivation. C is incorrect because “taijin kyofusho” is a
culture bound syndrome found in Japan which is similar to social phobia. D is incorrect
because “ghost sickness” is a culture bound syndrome of Native Americans which may
involve neurasthenic symptoms, but is more characterized by anxiety, hallucinations, and
a loss of consciousness.

115". The correct answer is D. In most settings, the intake decision should be based on a
brief assessment of the applicant's problem, personality and situation to determine need
for service. It should not depend on a comprehensive assessment. A is incorrect because
the treatment plan follows the comprehensive assessment, it does not precede it. The
treatment plan is based on assessment findings. B and C are incorrect because these tasks
are part of the comprehensive assessment, they do not precede it.

116". The correct answer is B. In the course of dealing with the current problem the
client should be helped to develop coping skills (ego strengths) and behavioral problem
solving techniques that will be useful in the future. A is incorrect because, even though
the focus is on solving the current problem, that doesn't mean that developing important
problem solving skills for future use is contraindicated. C is incorrect because
development of general problem solving skills is accomplished through actual practice
and reflective discussion, not dynamic interpretation. D is irrelevant.

117 ". The correct answer is C. Note the word "except" in the question. The value of
self-determination means that clients should be allowed to choose their own goals. And
clients need to choose their own goals in order to feel the sense of ownership that
motivates a person toward goal attainment. When a client's decision making capacity is
compromised due to crisis, organic impairment or severe decompensation, however, the
therapist may need to take an authoritative, directive stance to help the client find the
means for achieving his or her own ultimate goals.

118". The correct answer is B. This client's diagnosis is probably hypochondriasis
which involves a misinterpretation of bodily symptoms or functions. Hypochondriasis is
a somatoforrn disorder. Somatoform disorders are a group of diagnoses in which the
presence of a physical symptom suggests a medical condition but the symptoms are not
fully explained by a medical condition. A is incorrect because a psychosomatic disorder
always involves a true medical condition, diagnosable on Axis HI. C is incorrect because
a cognitive disorder involves an impairment in memory and/or thinking processes such as
logical thinking, abstract thinking or calculation ability. These symptoms are not
suggested in this question. D is incorrect because a person experiences manifest anxiety
in an anxiety disorder. Persons who somatisize their anxiety often do not experience
manifest anxiety. In any case the somatoform problems described here are not classified
in the anxiety disorder section of the diagnostic manual.

119". The correct answer is B. Legal reporting mandates apply to individual MFT’s and
other licensed practitioners, not usually to organizations. All other possible answers are

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 302 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

incorrect because they are the prerogative of supervisors and managers. The professional
marriage and family therapist should have input into developing policies, procedures and
assignments, but should not exercise independent judgment in determining them.

120". The correct answer is D. Reality testing refers to how well a person distinguishes
between inner and outer stimuli; in other words, to what extent do wishes and fantasies
interfere with accurate perception and interpretation of events? Problems of reality
testing are not limited to the extremes of psychotic distortion. A is incorrect because
judgment involves how well a person can anticipate the probable consequences of
intended behavior and whether the person chooses to adapt their behavior in light of those
probable consequences. B is incorrect because a problematic sense of reality would
involve the experience of depersonalization or derealization. These features are not
described in the question. C is incorrect because adaptive regression involves the ability
to suspend logical, rational thought in favor of fantasy, imagination and intuition in a way
which serves, rather than impairs, adaptive functioning. These qualities are also not
described in the question.

121". The correct answer is A. Fantasies and magical thinking are most characteristic of
the Oedipal period, also referred to by Erikson as the stage of initiative vs. guilt, which
occurs during the early elementary school years. All of the other answers are incorrect
because they occur at older ages when the ego functions of reason, reality testing and
judgment provide more functional alternatives to fantasies and magical thinking in many
situations.

122". The correct answer is D. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Once services
have begun, therapists provide reasonable notice of any changes in fees or other charges.”
A is incorrect because there is neither a legal nor ethical prohibition against changing
your fee during the course of therapy. B and C are incorrect because neither law nor
ethical standards regulate the frequency or amount of a change in fee.

123". The correct answer is A. Extinction deals with a problematic operant behavior
which has been sustained by reinforcement. In this procedure one arranges for those
reinforcers to be withheld when the behavior occurs. B is incorrect because developing
self-assertion skills is better related to the learning techniques of education, skill
acquisition, practice and application. C is incorrect because overcoming a phobia is
better related to the techniques of relaxation training, systematic desensitization and
graduated exposure. D is incorrect because extinction is not directly related to
overcoming a substance abuse or chemical dependency problem. If behavior
modification techniques were used they would more likely include aversive conditioning,
covert sensitization, and cognitive restructuring supplemented by family therapy in the
case of a 16 year old.

124". The correct answer is B. Piaget's developmental framework provides the
theoretical underpinnings for this question. At the age of five a child's thinking is still

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS B Page 303

characterized by "egocentrism." Cognitively speaking, this does not mean narcissistic
self-centeredness but it is a perceptual quality in which one is cognitively unable to take
another person's perspective. The young child at this stage is incapable of true empathy,
even though the child can imitate another person's apparent behavior, and even though the
capacity for empathy is already beginning to emerge. A is incorrect because repeated bed
wetting at the age of five would likely meet the DSM criteria for enuresis. C is incorrect
because the ability to recognize that objects exist apart from one's perception of them is
known as the object concept, which develops at about six months of age in the normal
infant. D is incorrect because children of this age usually have a stable sense of identity.
Identity confusion develops when puberty upsets this childhood identity.

125". The correct answer is C. In View of prevailing standards of practice four Weeks
would not be too soon to notify clients, especially in View of the long term nature of your
relationships with them. Marriage and family therapy ethics also require that you assist
the client in arranging the transfer, referral, or continuation of service in relation to the
client's needs and preferences. A is incorrect because it would be too disruptive to notify
clients of such unconfirmed plans. B is incorrect because the client should have the
opportunity to participate in decisions and plans regarding transfer or service
continuation, and four weeks is not too much advance notice to clients. D is incorrect
because you would not be undermining the client's autonomy and self-determination by
discussing the follow-up plans and helping to make transfer arrangements, as long as the
client's decisions and choices are respected.

126". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. If D were an
established ethical principle it would never be possible for MFT’s who specialize to work
in collaboration with one another on a client's behalf. It might be unethical to serve a
client who is already receiving some type of therapy services from another agency or
colleague without appropriate communication to that other service provider. However,
with appropriate communication and collaboration there is no ethical problem. A, B and
C are all ethical principles contained within the AAMFT Code of Ethics. Because these
principles are taught at most schools which prepare students for the marriage and family
therapy profession they may be considered as principles for the profession, even for those
who do not belong to this association.

127 ". The correct answer is C. A supervisor may work with a supervisee to foster
personal growth, but only as it applies directly to his or her work with clients. The focus
on countertransference around a specific issue makes this intervention appropriate. D is
incorrect because psychotherapy is not an appropriate role for a supervisor. Engaging in
both roles would be considered a dual relationship with an inherent conflict of interest. A
is incorrect because there is no reason why the intern should be so limited. A young,
physically small individual can learn to feel confident and be effective with clients who
don't share these characteristics. B is incorrect because ethical principles require that
marriage and family therapists accurately represent their professional qualifications,
education, experience, and affiliations.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 304 I MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

128". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. Each case
should be assessed individually. Homelessness, substance related disorders, and mood
disorders are commonly associated, but it is important to recognize that any one of the
factors may predispose, cause or exacerbate the other factors. There is no known link,
however, between homelessness and panic disorder with agoraphobia.

129". The correct answer is A. B is incorrect because, even though anxiety might be
associated with a conduct disorder or any other disorder, it is not a defining feature. In
other words, it is not required that a person be anxious in order to be diagnosed with
conduct disorder. C is incorrect because, although latent anxiety may be involved in a
conversion disorder, manifest anxiety is not necessarily present and is not a defining
feature. D is incorrect because catatonia involves stupor or marked muscular rigidity or
flexibility ("waxy flexibility"), not anxiety. Manifest anxiety is a defining feature of a
generalized anxiety disorder, or any other diagnosis in the anxiety disorders category.

130". The correct answer is A. A "blank screen" stance is maintained so that the client
can engage in free association without a real need to guard against judgment or ridicule.
If the client then feels a need to distort the expression of free associations due to
assumptions about the "blank screen's" preferences or expectations, then those
assumptions can be explored as projections. The result is self exploration, learning and
insight development. B, C and D are incorrect because all of these objectives may be
accomplished without needing to maintain a "blank screen" stance. Professional distance,
dependency avoidance, and client self-determination might be enhanced by a "blank
screen" stance, but these qualities are not the intended purpose.

131". The correct answer is C. A is incorrect because clients will take direction from a
person seen as having professional expertise, even if that person does not remind the
client of his or her parents. B is incorrect because techniques associated with self
discovery and self direction are inconsistent with direct influence techniques. It is true
that both kinds of techniques might be used with the same client at various points in the
course of therapy, but they are not likely to be used concurrently, and direct influence
techniques can be effective without any use of these other techniques. D is incorrect
because direct influence techniques &om a professionally credible therapist can be
effective without any self-revelation at all.

132". The correct answer is B. A and C both express disapproval of the client's
assaultiveness. Such disapproval may or may not be effective in preventing the assaultive
behavior, but it is more likely to be associated with a lower risk than when significant
others support the client's assaultive intentions. D is incorrect because support from
significant others may be expressed in a variety of ways. Support might include, for
example, setting limits and positive expectations for the client. The fact that significant
others are available to support the client does not necessarily mean that the significant
others are approving or supporting the assaultive behavior.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 305

 

133". The correct answer is D. This client has a right to self-determination and needs
information and support in formulating a decision to resolve her conflict. Marriage and
family therapists should help clients understand the consequences of their decisions
regarding family arrangements, and should leave the decision to the client. A is incorrect
because the client has a right to choose what will be in her own best interest even if that is
not in the best interest of the child. If she makes a decision that creates problems for the
child, then the therapist should help her to find the resources that will best meet the
child’s needs under the circumstances. B is incorrect because the client has not yet made
a decision regarding whether or not to keep the child she has adopted. C is incorrect
because the client has not yet made a decision regarding whether or not to keep the child
she has adopted. Both B and C are also incorrect because it has not been established that
the child actually is autistic. Symptoms of reactive attachment disorder or some medical
conditions could appear to be signs of autism, but have a very different prognosis.

134". The correct answer is C. Among persons with major depression in the general
population, about 10% have a pre-existing dysthymic disorder. In clinical samples, that
is, among those persons with major depressive disorder who have sought clinical help,
the percentage has been found to be between 15% and 25%. '

135". The correct answer is A. Other names for amphetamines include speed, uppers,
crank, bennies, dexies, white cross, meth, and pep pills.

136". The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because clients have the right to Withdraw
from treatment at any time, and should be made aware of this right when informed
consent is sought. C is incorrect because, even though the client must be told the reasons
for the treatment, it is not necessary that the client then be able to explain it back to you
or another person. D is incorrect because a client has a right to consent to a treatment that
is not culturally appropriate.

137 ". The correct answer is A. This is a commonly used mental status exam test of a
person's ability to focus attention, or concentrate. B is incorrect because cooperativeness
should be evident throughout the assessment interview without needing a specific test
such as this. C is incorrect because elaborate instruments are necessary and available for
testing intelligence level. Spelling a word backwards would be a Very inadequate
indicator of intelligence. D is incorrect because this test does not require abstract
thinking. The interpretation of proverbs or explanation of similarities between two
objects are commonly used to test for abstract thinking. For example, what do oranges
and apples have in common?

138". The correct answer is B. D is incorrect because problem identification and
clarification needs to occur early. This includes partializing and prioritizing the Various
problems or aspects of the problem. A is incorrect because this too needs to be done
early. It is a means of clarifying the nature of the problem, as experienced by the client,
and also serves to engage the client and build a therapeutic relationship. C comes next as

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2.009

Page 306  MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

a variety of alternative solutions are considered. It is then possible to choose one of these
alternative solutions, as described in answer B.

139". The correct answer is A. For the clinical record, list all DSM diagnoses for which
criteria are met. In speaking with the client, of course, use the terminology that is most
familiar to the client. B is incorrect because there is no such DSM category as "V-code
NOS" and because V-codes are not true mental disorders. A person presenting with
“nervios” often does have a clinically significant mental disorder. C is incorrect because
this syndrome is not considered normal in the culture. It is considered to be problematic,
distressing, possibly disabling...an affliction. It may be a characteristic way of
experiencing distress in the culture, just as major depressive disorder may be a
characteristic way of experiencing distress in the American culture, but it is not
considered normal, functional or healthy behavior. D is incorrect because client's lack
sufficient technical background to make decisions about diagnostic formulations. One
might say that it is not within the client's scope of practice to formulate diagnostic
conclusions, even though the client is the best source of information about the nature of
the symptoms.

140". The correct answer is D. It would be better to regulate the degree of dependency
versus independence as needed for effective functioning and personal gratification, rather
than simply avoiding dependency. That's why A is incorrect. If A were accomplished as
a treatment goal the client would have simply gone from one extreme to the other. B is
incorrect because it would not be appropriate to foster dependency in a person who is
already troubled by excessive dependency. C is incorrect. A person with healthy object
relations would be open to accepting dependency from others when appropriate, but
would not invite it whenever possible. ”

141". The correct answer is A. Shame is associated with overconcern for other people's
judgments, and a sense of not wanting to be seen by others. B is incorrect because a 35
year old person would not have a tendency toward developing a personality disorder
which, by definition, must have already been established by adolescence or early
adulthood. C is incorrect because the only known predictors of a tendency toward manic
episodes are a family history of bipolar disorder or previous major depressive episodes in
the individual. The symptoms described in this question are not associated with manic
episodes. D is incorrect because adaptive regression is a functional ego defense and is
not especially associated with any of the features described in this question.

142". The correct answer is A. Since the person is manic and in crisis, you can help
assure her safety and her following through on the appointment by encouraging her to
have a family member or friend accompany her. B is incorrect because routine home
visits to new clients who are in crisis would probably not be an efficient way to use
limited resources and probably not necessary. C is incorrect because a marriage and
family therapist should be able to provide an adequate initial assessment and crisis
intervention services. It may be helpful to collaborate with a physician at the time of the

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 307

 

initial visit, but it would not be necessary to arrange for the client to see a physician
"instead of‘ a marriage and family therapist. D is incorrect because detailed records
would not be necessary at this point in time. It would be best to hear the client's
description of her service history, then, with the client's consent, Contact the agencies or
individual service providers for the more detailed information.

143". The correct answer is D. Lithium carbonate is used to treat the manic phase of a
bipolar disorder and it does not cause depression. A, B and C all refer to nonprescription
drugs that may cause depressive symptoms. The fact that she has had a cold over the past
two weeks and that she is unaware of any psychosocial concerns that might have led to
the depression suggest that it may be a side effect of such a drug.

144". The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because PTSD clients often labor under a
sense of guilt for having caused their trauma even though, in most cases, they did not. B
is correct because all PTSD clients, like all people, are exposed to a variety of stressors in
daily living. By learning to better manage those stressors that particularly contribute to
symptom exacerbation, the client can gain a better sense of control over his or her life and
reduce anxiety. C is incorrect because psychic numbing is a problematic symptom of
PTSD, not a technique for treating it. D is incorrect because this course of action may set
up the client for repeated trauma. Each client needs to decide for themselves whether or
not to confront a perpetrator and, if so, when and how to do so.

145". The correct answer is D. A is incorrect because the client sought help in dealing
with the response to stress, not a major change in personality. Long term therapy is
usually required to make significant improvements in ego strengths. In view of the fact
that adjustment disorders tend to be self-limiting and in View of the client's purpose in
seeking service, a long term therapy focus would be inappropriate. B would be correct if
the client also had a diagnosis of a mood disorder in which persistent automatic thoughts
were the cause or a major contributing factor to the depression. However, that is not the
case here. Some cognitive restructuring might be helpful, but it should not be the focus
and is, therefore, not the best answer. The focus should be on coping better with the
precipitating stressor, not automatic thoughts that didn't really cause the present problem.
C is incorrect because there is no evidence that the client poses a suicide risk. Most
people with this diagnosis will not require hospitalization. When they do, the stay is
usually very short and geared to resolving the crisis state.

146". The correct answer is A. Note the word "except" in the question. Clients with
bulimia tend to be medically stable and are not posing a serious imminent threat of danger
to self or others. B is incorrect because anorexia patients often require emergency or
urgent medical attention at time of initial contact. C is incorrect because the psychotic
loss of contact with reality, coupled by the sudden onset and emotional turmoil of a brief
psychosis, often pose urgent problems at the time of intake. D is incorrect because, even
though most obsessive compulsive disordered clients do not require urgent care, those
who present with psychotic decompensation often do.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 308 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

147". The correct answer is C. Psychotic symptoms might occur in any personality
disordered person when under exceptional stress, but the three personality disorders listed
in C are the most vulnerable to psychotic symptoms.

148". The correct answer is B. The definition of “isolation” in the Elder and Dependent
Adult Abuse Reporting Act See. 15610.43 includes all of the issues listed in A, C and D.
“Mental suffering” is defined as “fear, agitation, confusion, severe depression, or other
forms of serious emotional distress that is brought about by threats, harassment, or other
forms of intimidating behavior” but there is no prohibition against threatening to
discontinue regular visits to an elder, even if it causes fear, agitation or confusion.

149". The correct answer is D. The person with a dependent personality disorder may
not maintain close, warm and intimate relationships with‘ others, but the relationship may
be long lasting, especially if the significant other is someone who is codependent or seeks
dominance. A is incorrect because the paranoid personality disordered person distances
others due to pervasive distrust and because others resent it when their actions are
misinterpreted as deliberately demeaning or threatening. B is incorrect because the
borderline personality disorder is characterized by unstable interpersonal relationships
resulting from splitting, alternating idealization and devaluation of others, and
manipulative self-destructive gestures. C is incorrect because the person with antisocial
personality disorder distances others through exploitation and manipulation and because
of an inability to make and keep commitments.

150". The correct answer is C. The other three disorders listed under A, B and D are not
especially associated with any particular diagnosis in the family history.

151". The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because many objective, reliably
observable indicators of autonomic hyperactivity are available during an assessment
interview. C and D are incorrect because depression and avoidance of eye contact may
also be directly observed during an assessment interview. B is most likely to reflect
inference rather than fact because objective indicators of guilt are not readily available.
Client report is likely to be the basis for determining guilt. Inference is especially implied
by the assumption that the client "is motivated" by guilt. Motivation cannot be directly
observed.

152". The correct answer is D. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and
family therapists do not offer or accept kickbacks, rebates, bonuses, or other remuneration
for referrals...” Similarly, according to state law an MFT license can be revoked or
suspended for “Paying, accepting, or soliciting any consideration, compensation, or
remuneration, whether monetary or otherwise, for the referral of professional clients.”
The arrangement described in the question involves giving the EAP free service for one
of the employees it covers.\n
A is incorrect because these ethical standards are not conditional upon a client’s

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 309

 

acceptance. Clients shouldn't be expected to understand the principal behind these
ethical standards. The principle is that a referral should be made to the resource that can
best meet the client’s needs. That judgment should not be influenced by bonuses or
rebates. B and C are incorrect because the fee is being lowered as a rebate in exchange
for referrals. It might be different if the MFT lowered his or her rate across the board in
order to receive more referrals across the board. That is how all fee setting and pricing
works in a free market. In that case the MFT would accept a lower fee regardless of the
number of clients referred. But in this instance the MFT made a special arrangement with
a specific referral resource which is based on the number of referrals made.

153". The correct answer is B. Note the word "except" in the question. Baselines
measure the frequency, magnitude (intensity) and duration of a behavior, not the causal
conditions or triggering stimuli.

154". The correct answer is D. To say that a family or individual is acculturated means
that the values and customs of another, surrounding culture have been adopted. While all
four answers, especially B, C and D, may involve some degree of acculturation, answer D
describes the most extensive acculturation. According to anthropologist Red Horse, A
would best be described as a traditional cultural orientation, B would best be described as
neotraditional, C as transitional, and D as acculturated.

155". The correct answer is A. Empathy is concerned with understanding the client's
meaning. This is done by using one's imagination to put oneself in the client's frame of
reference, by listening carefully, and by checking out one's understanding of the client's
meaning. B suggests a lack of empathy because this therapist is not recognizing that his
words are not well understood by the client, and because, by using standardized words
and phrases the therapist is not tracking well with the client's emerging thoughts and
feelings. C is incorrect because, even though this therapist might be genuine and warm,
the statement is not directly related to empathic understanding of the client's meaning. D
is incorrect for the same reason C is incorrect. The statement relates to a therapist's
nonpossessive warmth, but not empathy.

156". The correct answer is A. A therapeutic relationship "most directly enhances the
client's depth of self-exploration during therapy sessions. This fact has been well
established in research. B, C and D refer to ego functions and coping skills that may be
indirectly enhanced by a therapeutic relationship, but not directly so. It would depend on
whether or not these issues were problematic for the client and whether or not the therapy
was designed to target such improvements.

157 ". The correct answer is B. Delayed reactions indicate that the child may be using
defenses such as denial, dissociation and repression that preclude the child from working
through the issues and consequences of the assault. A is incorrect because unwillingness
to talk about the assault is much more problematic. C is incorrect because no emotional
disturbances prior to the assault suggests that the child's personality is normal and

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 310 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

healthy. The fact that there are emotional disturbances following the assault is to be
expected in all cases, except for those problematic cases involving delayed reactions. D
is incorrect because ideas of reference regarding the assault would indicate a sense of
guilt or shame. The absence of ideas of reference is a good sign.

158". The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. A, B, and C all
convey and understanding of the client's experience. This is even true for statement C
because, although the client may well feel anger and resentment for her father, it is
probably also true that she still feels the sense of care and concern that most children feel
for their parents. D is a question that calls for intellectualizing and analysis. It is not a
very helpful question because the client is not likely to know the answer to this very
speculative question and, in any case, the question does not convey empathy for the
client's experience.

159". The correct answer is A. B and C are incorrect because they are more related to a
behavioral approach. B is also incorrect because self-acceptance is a concept that does
not lend itself well to conceptualization as a skill. D is incorrect because these
interventions are more oriented to developing a positive evaluation of self, not self-
acceptance which implies accepting one's positive as well as negative qualities.

160". The correct answer is D. A healthy self-concept is well differentiated, thereby
allowing a person to evaluate some personal qualities as positive, others as negative. A
global and undifferentiated self-concept suggests poor ego strength and vulnerability to
stress, shame and other problems. A is incorrect because situational and opportunistic
offenses are of less risk than a recurrent pattern of offenses. B is incorrect because
offenders who use drugs or alcohol, especially in connection with the violent behavior,
are likely to have poor impulse control and are more likely to repeat the act as part of a
compulsive cycle. C is incorrect because cautiousness under these circumstances is
appropriate, suggesting that the individual understands the gravity of the situation and has
a healthy sense of self. Greater risk is indicated if the offender is defiant or expresses
blind compliance during the interview.

161". The correct answer is C. Genuineness means that the therapist self-congruently
communicates his or her true thoughts and feelings. The genuine therapist does not come
across as being duplicitous or deceptive. This does not necessarily mean that the therapist
reveals all that he or she is thinking and feeling, but that what is communicated is
genuine. A is incorrect because, even though it is a positive statement it doesn't directly
relate to genuineness; perhaps more to the therapist's insight and empathy. B is incorrect
because it reflects a lack of genuineness, even though the intentions may be good. D is
incorrect because it reflects empathy, not genuineness.

162". The correct answer is B. Note the word "least" in the question. Any of the four
possible answers could lead to being found guilty of malpractice. However, A, C and D
are much more likely to involve malpractice. They are clear violations of legal principles

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 311

 

regarding confidentiality (A), duty to protect (C), and client abandonment (D). You
would not likely be found guilty of malpractice for failing to identify suicide risk (answer 
B) unless you were presented with clear and specific indicators of risk and failed to
exercise due diligence in conducting your assessment. Often when therapists fail to
predict suicide it is because the client withheld information about their intentions or
plans, or because the client presented information that tended to minimize the appearance
of risk.

163". The correct answer is C. A consent to release information must name the person
or program authorized to make the release. A is incorrect because the agency may not
revoke the client's right to release information. B is incorrect because only the client's
name is required. You may choose to request identifying information if you have doubt
that the person giving consent is, in fact, the client, but this is not a standard requirement.
D is incorrect because consents are written for a span of time, not for a specific date. The
consent form must either specify the date, event or condition upon which it will expire,
but not the date on which the information should be disclosed.

164". The correct answer is B. A person has the right to refuse treatment under all other
circumstances listed. A is incorrect because involuntary commitment only deprives a
person of the right to leave the hospital. It does not mean that the person must be
subjected to unwanted treatments within the hospital. C is incorrect because even two
physicians do not have the authority to supersede an individual's right to refuse treatment.
D is incorrect because, even though informed consent requires that a person be informed
of the nature and purpose of the treatment they are consenting to, a person still retains the
right to withhold consent whether he understands this information or not.

165". The correct answer is C. A consultant's purpose is educational, not administrative.
C is the answer least relevant to an administrative decision. A might be an appropriate
question if the consultant is clear about the agency's mission and priorities. However, A
also has an administrative aspect in the sense that supervisors and not consultants are in
the best position to direct priorities within a caseload. B is incorrect for the same reasons
that A is incorrect. D is incorrect because budget allocations are an administrative
decision.

166". The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because, even though a therapist practicing
long term Psychodynamic Psychotherapy tends to be inactive, in Psychodynamic Brief
Therapy the therapist is active. C is incorrect because, although it is unlikely that the
persistent personality disorder will be resolved through brief therapy, people with
personality disorders often have specific situational problems that can be resolved
through brief therapy. D is incorrect because real world issues are commonly addressed
in Psychodynamic Brief Therapy, even though they are deemphasized in long term
Psychodynamic Therapy.

167 ". The correct answer is A. Cognitive Therapy may use bibliotherapy or

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 3 12 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

psychoeducation within a group of peers. The Behavioral Therapy technique of
systematic desensitization may also be used. However, “self-instruction” specifically
refers to the way in which Cognitive Therapy clients learn to make statements to
themselves which tend to suppress symptoms and direct their attention to alternatives...for
example, the client with ADHD who learns to say “I have to go slowly and carefully.
Remember, go slowly.” 

168". The correct answer is C. The experience of spells appears to be normal within the
client's culture. Her family's, as well as her own, lack of concern suggest that the I
experiences are not causing significant disability or distress. In fact, the insight your
client gains through these spells may even be a source of support and adaptation. Her
belief about communicating with spirits of deceased relatives may not be considered
delusional if it is a culturally held belief, shared with others. You should still monitor for
the development of a true psychotic disorder, as with any client under extreme stress,
because even people who experience‘ culturally normative spells can develop psychotic
disorders. For example, the content of your client's experiences may change to beliefs
that are not normative for her culture, and her functioning might become significantly
impaired as a result. However, there is no indication of that at this time. A is incorrect
because culturally held beliefs are not delusions. B is incorrect because your client's level
of distress is not seen as exceptional for a person of her age and culture, nor is her
functioning significantly impaired by the stress of her move. D is incorrect because
marriage and family therapists should have sufficient diagnostic skill and cultural
sensitivity to address this issue. If you find that this is not true for you in a specific case,
then consultation from a culturally competent consultant would be indicated.

169". The correct answer is A. The California Penal Code Sec. 11166 states that a report
must be made when “it is objectively reasonable for a person to entertain such a
suspicion, based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in a like position,
drawing when appropriate on his or her training and experience, to suspect child abuse.”
B is incorrect because, according to this provision of the law, you must report those cases
in which you should have suspected child abuse, even if you didn’t suspect it. This
means that a marriage and family therapist cannot avoid the reporting implications of this
law simply by failing to learn about indicators of child abuse or by ignoring these issues
when conducting comprehensive clinical assessments. C is incorrect because a mandated
report is triggered by suspicion, not by proof based in evidence. D is incorrect because
you are not required to make a report based on another individual’s suspicion. You are
required to report based on your own suspicion, or based on what would constitute
reasonable suspicion across a variety of reasonable people in your position.

170". The correct answer is B. The course of action described in A will likely be 
unnecessary once the client has received proper information about her child's medication.
After providing her with this information it would also be a good idea to encourage her to
speak with the physician to get further information about the medication, its possible side
effects and risks, and its potential benefits. It would not be beyond your scope of practice

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 313

 

to provide this simple information. However, more technical information about a
medication should come from a physician, pharmacist or nurse. C is incorrect because
you should not have to call the physician to find out why this standard treatment approach
was used. D is incorrect because there is nothing you need to learn from the client's son
in order to provide his mother with the information she needs. 

171". The correct answer is B. This Cognitive Behavioral Therapy technique is also
known as “graduated exposure.” A is incorrect because the “exposure” referred to in
exposure therapy is in relation to any feared stimulus, not specifically social exposure to a
group of peers. C is incorrect because core beliefs and core belief schemas are the same
thing. C is also incorrect because moving from automatic thoughts to core beliefs is the
general direction of most Behavioral Therapy, whereas exposure therapy is a more
specific technique. D is ‘incorrect because medications are not necessarily used in
conjunction with exposure therapy.

172". The correct answer is D. A, B, C and D are all techniques which should be used in
the Cognitive Therapy of a client who has a panic disorder. D is the correct answer
because almost all Cognitive Therapy approaches precede behavior change interventions
with an explanation regarding the behaviors to be treated. This helps the client know
what to anticipate, and to participate more effectively when the behavior change
interventions are used.

173". The correct answer is B. By encouraging the client to experience the symptoms
rather than trying to control and suppress them, the client learns that panic attack
symptoms extinguish spontaneously. A is incorrect because it refers to a Psychodynamic
Psychotherapy approach. D is incorrect because it refers to a Humanistic Existential
approach. Therapists using either of these two orientations for their general practice
recognize the demonstrated value of a Cognitive Therapy approach to panic disorder
symptoms. C is incorrect because, even though panic disorder symptoms may be
responsive to intentional precipitation, the client needs to learn to let go and allow
symptoms, not to willfully control them.

174". The correct answer is A. Openly discuss suicide, even during the initial session, to
let the client know that you are not too fearful about the subject to be helpful. B is
incorrect because more frequent visits and ad hoc appointments should be offered if they
will help to reduce the risk, even though dependency may be aroused. The dependency
can be worked through later, after the suicide risk is resolved. C is incorrect because you
should be able to raise the issue directly and openly with the client without having to
delay while waiting for input from collaterals. D is incorrect because the client needs to
understand his or her own responsibility for suicidal behavior. Let the client know that
you don’t want him to kill himself, but that you will not take responsibility for his death.
Such a statement about others feeling responsible might even increase suicide risk among
individuals whose intention is to hurt others through the suicidal act.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009

Page 314 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

175". The correct answer is A. Almost all suicidal individuals are ambivalent about
taking their lives, and suicide is one alternative available to the client whether or not we
think it ought to be. B is incorrect because failing to acknowledge that suicide is one
alternative available to the client would be unrealistic and it would eliminate the
possibility of examining the negative consequences of this alternative. C is incorrect
because the client needs to know that you can empathize with and understand the client’s
full experience, both the positive and negative aspects. D is incorrect because effective
therapy with any client needs to focus on solutions as well as problems. The client’s
desire to live is an important aspect of what will likely eventually become the solution to
the problem of suicide risk.

176". The correct answer is C. All of the possible answers are appropriate techniques to
use in Crisis Intervention Therapy. However, anticipatory guidance is the one technique
that can best help the client to develop a sense of control over an anxiety arousing
uncertain future. Anticipatory guidance uses educational methods and anticipatory
practice, such as role play, to gain a sense of experience with a future that has not yet
actually happened. A is incorrect because this technique is most helpful in reducing
anxiety that has been overgeneralized to the present situation from past experiences. B is
incorrect because this technique is also helpful in reducing the client's anxiety here and
now, but is not particularly geared to gaining a sense of control in the future. D is
incorrect because this is a technique for motivating and focusing the client during the
engagement and planning phases.

177 ". The correct answer is B. Decatastrophizing is the technique of helping a client
review evidence that the catastrophic expectations probably won't come true based on
prior experiences, others‘ experiences, or any other related information. It is a specific
example of the thought modification technique known as "examining the evidence." A is
incorrect because agenda setting is the general practice of setting an agenda for each
session, whether the primary purpose of the session is engagement, assessment or
intervention. C is incorrect because guided discovery is an assessment technique used to
help a client identify automatic thoughts. D is incorrect because "adaptive schemas" are
not an intervention technique. This term refers to core beliefs that are realistic, optimistic
and constructive.

178". The correct answer is A. The Duty to Warn applies to situations in which a patient
"presents a serious danger of violence to another." Before issuing a warning under the
provisions of this law the therapist must make a judgment as to the seriousness of the
threat. B and C are incorrect because you should not inform either the police or the
intended victim prior to determining the seriousness of the threat. D is also incorrect
because you need to determine the seriousness of the threat before taking this action.
Once you determine that the threat is a serious one, it is best, but not legally required, that
you obtain the client's cooperation or consent about warning the intended victim if at all
possible.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS   Page 315

 

179". The correct answer is D. The Duty to Report Injury only applies to the health
practitioner who provides medical services for a physical condition that results from
assaultive or abusive conduct. The physician in this case has a duty to report, but the
marriage and family therapist does not because the client did not see the therapist for
medical treatment of the physical condition.

180". The correct answer is B. The authentic self refers to the whole organism, both
conscious and unconscious, as it really is. A is incorrect because the authentic self is not
only in conscious awareness. C and D are incorrect because the authentic self is not a
fragmented aspect of self but it is the essence of the person, the whole that is greater than
the sum of the parts.

181". The correct answer is C. This question reflects a Gestalt Therapy technique which
seeks to help the client become aware of, and accept responsibility for, the full range of
his or her beliefs, emotions and experiences. This involves becoming aware of both sides
of his or her ambivalences, especially because people tend to project the unwanted or less
desirable side of their mixed feelings. This theory assumes that whatever we may want,
there is also a way in which we don’t want it, and whatever we don’t want, there is also a
way in which we do want it. A is incorrect because testing misconceptions is a Cognitive
Therapy technique of cognitive empiricism. The Gestalt therapist is not seeking to
empirically invalidate this client’s beliefs about being orderly and responsible, only to
help the client become aware of and accept mixed feelings about this issue. B is incorrect
because generating alternatives to dysfunctional schemas is a Cognitive Therapy
technique for modifying core beliefs in which Socratic questions are used to lead a client
to discover more valid and functional thoughts. D is incorrect because the Gestalt
therapist is not trying to help the client resolve conflicts, only to become aware of them
and take responsibility for them. The client may or may not then want to resolve any
conflicts that come to his or her attention.

182". The correct answer is A. Response shaping is used when the likelihood of
spontaneous emission of a target behavior is very low. Successive approximations of the
desirable behavior are rewarded. For example, first sounds, then words and gestures, then
sentences, then socially useful speech. B is incorrect because behavioral rehearsal is a
form of role playing in which a client is presented with verbal instruction and/or a
demonstration of the desired behavior, then given opportunities for practice followed by
feedback and reward. This approach generally requires a client who is more motivated
and interactive than the one described in this question. C is incorrect because extinction
is a technique used to reduce the frequency of problematic behaviors that have been
sustained by reinforcement. Even if it were possible to eliminate the mutism by using
this technique, extinction alone would not replace it with socially useful speech. D is
incorrect because covert sensitization associates imagery of aversive conditions with
imagery of undesirable behaviors. Imagery based techniques are generally not effective
with schizophrenic individuals in that they tend to reinforce internal preoccupation and
are subject to significant distortions.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009 I

Page 316 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

183". The correct answer is C. Psychomotor functioning involves a complex variety of
capacities. Precise measurement is needed for purposes of accurately tracking progress or
deterioration over time. All other clinical issues listed in A, B and D should be
sufficiently subject to a therapist’s clinical observation in order to accomplish the
purposes listed in the answers.

184". The correct answer is D. Methadone is a drug used to treat heroin addiction. It
suppresses heroin withdrawal effects. C is incorrect because, unlike heroin, methadone
causes only minimal euphoria, usually without drowsiness or depression. A and B are
incorrect because unlike heroin or methamphetamines or other problematic “street drugs,”
methadone allows a person to engage in whatever level of occupational functioning the
person might have been able to accomplish prior to the addiction.

185". The correct answer is C. Depression often varies by season, with exacerbations
during the darker winter months. A and D are incorrect because anxiety and cognitive
disturbances may tend to vary over the course of a day, but are much less likely than
depression to vary across seasons. B is incorrect because impulse control problems are
not particularly associated with variations across seasons or over the course of a day.

186". The correct answer is B. Begin with general issues. Inquire about the child’s
general daily activities and interests. Move to inquiring about more specific interactions
that arise in the course of these daily activities. Then move more toward the sexual and
secretive aspects of these interactions, as they relate to the assault. A is incorrect because
if you condemn the abuser the child may feel that he or she is contributing to the abuser’s
punishment, thereby feeling fearful and inhibited. Instead, let the victim know that the
abuser needs help and will now have a chance to get help. C is incorrect for the same
reason. Your show of shock or disgust will likely tend to inhibit the victim. It is best to
remain calm. D is incorrect because these interviews are best conducted in a casual and
private setting that feels natural to the child.

187". The correct answer is A. A history of suicide attempts and reckless driving are
indicators of a low threshold for anxiety and frustration or poor impulse control. B is
incorrect because people with schizophrenia have no greater propensity for assaultive
behavior than others in the general population. Schizophrenic individuals with the
greatest propensity for Violence are those with the paranoid type. C is incorrect because
some kinds of disturbed object relations, such as paranoid tendencies, could contribute to
assaultive behavior risk. However, disturbed object relations in general are not directly
related to this issue, whereas a history of suicide attempts and reckless driving are directly
related to impulse control problems, which in turn are directly related to assault risk. D is
incorrect because this factor would tend to reduce assault risk. If significant others joined
the client in blaming the intended victim, that would lend support to the client’s
assaultive inclinations.

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 3 1 7

 

188". The correct answer is B. Stranger anxiety normally develops during late infancy.
It indicates that the infant is forming attachments to specific objects, also known as
“primary objects,” and distinguishes primary caretakers from other people. A and C are
incorrect because the development of stranger anxiety during late infancy is normal and is
not an indicator of any kind of risk or dysfunction. D is incorrect because stranger
anxiety is not directly related to impulse control, certainly not nearly as related as it is to
the issue of separation-individuation.

189". The correct answer is B. First and foremost the person with anorexia needs to gain
weight in order to reduce imminent clinical risk, including the risk of death. Answer D is
usually the next course of intervention, but because the weight gain resulting from
intravenous or nasogastric feeding will proceed more rapidly than the effects of the
behavioral program, it should be done first. A is incorrect because family therapy is
commonly used to maintain treatment gains achieved in the hospital, and because food is
not necessarily used as a means of expressing retaliation in all cases. C is incorrect
because systematic desensitization is used to reduce anxiety associated with phobic
avoidance. The anorexic individual’s refusal to eat is not necessarily due to phobic
avoidance.

190". The correct answer is A. Imaginal flooding involves prolonged exposure to
thoughts and images of the traumatic event in order to confront the anxiety arousing
image directly and thereby change the emotional charge of the traumatic memory. B, C
and D are incorrect because, even though these may be appropriate techniques to use in
the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder, they are not directly related to imaginal
flooding. The interventions described in answer D are often referred to as stress
inoculation training.

191". The correct answer is A. Flooding involves continued in vivo or imagined
exposure to a high fear arousing situation. Clients are repeatedly exposed to the anxiety
arousing stimulus. Then, in the response prevention stage, the performance of
compulsive rituals is prevented. Thus, the person remains anxious until the anxiety has
been extinguished. B is incorrect because there is little evidence that the obsessions and
compulsions of OCD are caused or triggered by a family’s reinforcement patterns. C is
incorrect because aversion therapy is a form of respondent or classical conditioning more
appropriately used to treat tobacco dependence or other chemical dependencies. It
involves conditioning an aversion response to previously neutral or desirable stimuli. D
is incorrect because the self-instructions taught to an obsessive individual would likely
become an additional obsession.

192". The correct answer is C. Once the client has a cognitive grasp of the nature of the
problem, the client will understand and, therefore, be more motivated to learn to identify
the antecedents of the panic attacks (B) and to face the symptoms (D). Facing the
symptoms means to allow oneself to have the symptoms rather than trying to control and
suppress them, thereby letting the symptoms extinguish spontaneously. A is incorrect

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 318 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

because newly learned coping statements will most likely make sense to a client after the
client understands the nature of the problem. Most Cognitive Therapy treatment
approaches begin by developing a cognitive understanding of the problem to be
addressed.

193". The correct answer is B. A therapist must provide information to a court that is
requested by the court unless the information is protected by privileged communication
and the client chooses to exercise his or her privileged communication right. In this case
the client has chosen not to exercise that right. A is incorrect because a client cannot
compel a therapist to reveal information. The client can only allow the therapist to reveal
information. C and D are incorrect because the client’s release permits the therapist to
reveal the information whether or not it is requested by the court.

194". The correct answer is B. If you believe that access to the record would cause
serious physical injury or death, then you may deny the client’s access to view the record.
If this occurs federal HIPAA regulations require that you inform the client that she has a
right to have the record reviewed by another qualified professional to see whether or not
that individual concurs with your judgment. A is incorrect because the law does not
require that a copy be provided to just any designated representative of the client under
these circumstances. The individual must be a qualified professional and the record must
be presented only if the client requests that you do so. C is incorrect because there is no
requirement that a third party be present. D is incorrect because the law does not allow
selective or partially restricted access.

195". The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because, even though you may not charge
a fee for making a referral, a fee may be charged for collaboration with another
professional. This is permitted even if the client is seeing the other professional as a
result of your referral. However, as with any fee to be charged for professional services,
the fee must be disclosed to the client prior to the commencement of treatment. C is
incorrect because the client’s consent to pay the fee would be insufficient unless the fee
was first disclosed to the client prior to the commencement of treatment. This rule
protects clients who might otherwise agree to pay newly disclosed fees under the
potentially coercive circumstances of an already established treatment relationship. D is
incorrect because the fee may be charged under the proper disclosure and agreement,
regardless of the client’s presence, during the collaboration.

196". The correct answer is A. California law states that psychotherapist-patient
privilege applies only to communications with “psychotherapists.” This exclusion applies
to clinical social workers but not to marriage and family therapists. All of an MFT’s
clients are presumed to be psychotherapy clients. B, C and D are incorrect because these
circumstances are all listed under the law as exceptions to the psychotherapist-patient
privilege.

197". The correct answer is B. Baselines are established during a client’s assessment by

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 3 19

 

measuring the frequency, magnitude and duration of target symptoms. A is incorrect
because baselines are related to the manifest symptom, not its cause. C is incorrect
because it describes an intervention technique, not an assessment technique. D is
incorrect because it describes the measurement of a client’s status post-intervention.
Baselines are established prior to intervention.

198". The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because, even though it describes an
effective problem oriented intervention for this kind of case, the mother’s ability to
benefit from your modeling will depend on the extent to which the mother identifies with
you. In other words, the client needs to believe that she is enough like you to be able to
do what you are doing when modeling. If she has not come to identify with you she may
observe your use of empathic listening skills, self-assertion and limit setting techniques
and think (for example) “I wish I were an older, professionally trained, middle class
person like my therapist so that I could do what she is doing.” Also, consider that
enhancing a client’s identification with you is an aspect of establishing the therapeutic
alliance. C and D are incorrect because, even though they may be important issues in a
long term, psychodynamic working through of the problem’s underlying causes, they are
not as relevant as modeling of solution focused communication and parenting skills if you
are taking a problem oriented approach. The question states that you are doing problem
oriented work.

199". The correct answer is C. Mal ojo refers to symptoms caused by the “evil eye,”
whereas mal puesto refers to symptoms caused by something akin to witchcraft. These
are presumed supernatural causes for symptoms. A and D are incorrect because these
references are concerned with the cause of the symptoms, not the nature of the symptoms.
B is incorrect because these terms refer to a supernatural, not natural or physical cause of
symptoms.

200". The correct answer is B. Alcohol dependence usually involves tolerance, meaning
that the individual needs to consume more and more of a particular substance in order to
achieve the same intoxicating effect. However, after many years of excessive alcohol
consumption an individual’s liver damage will often lead to the reverse effect. The
person is still physiologically dependent on alcohol, and withdrawal symptoms should be
expected upon abstinence, but smaller amounts of alcohol will be needed for intoxication.
C is incorrect because such liver damage is usually associated with a chronic and
regressed state of alcohol dependence, not early recovery. Recovery can begin at any
time, however the pattern described in the question is not especially associated with the
onset of recovery. D is incorrect because the question describes a common pattern among
persons with long standing alcohol dependencies. Such a report from a client should not
be presumed to be untruthful.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

