1". A 42 year old woman comes to the mental health crisis clinic in tears, feeling
confused and anxious. She has lost sleep over the past week because her 17 year old son
has been abusing amphetamines and, as a result, has been verbally abusive and physically
threatening to her. During the initial portion of the interview you should approach this
client by...

a. taking an authoritative stance, directing the client to take a firm but constructive
approach to her son
b. speaking in a gentle voice, identifying a variety of options .
c. allowing her to ventilate and encouraging deeper self-exploration
d. recommending referral to a physician to be evaluated for anti-anxiety medications

2". Your client, a 35 year old man, has just presented information that leads you to a
reasonable suspicion that he is engaging in physical child abuse. When you tell him that
you will make a mandated report he gives subtle nonverbal cues of becoming physically
threatening. He becomes agitated, occasionally getting up from his chair and pacing.
You should...

a. attempt to have the client sit while speaking with you, but don't insist on it if the
client strongly refuses
b. allow the client to get up and pace as a way of discharging pent up tension
c. insist that the client leave the room until he is able to sit quietly
d. call the police

3". Your supervisor at the family service agency requires you to notify her whenever you
make a child abuse report. You should...
a. inform her that she is not entitled to this information because the child abuse
reporting law applies to you as an individual, not to the agency
b. inform her that a report was made, but not the content of the report
c. notify her whenever you make a child abuse report
d. notify her of the aggregate number of reports that you make in a period of time,
such as every month or every year, but do not provide information about a report
related to a specific client

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 219

 

4". Mrs. James' youngest child, Mike, age 10, is afraid to go to school. Mrs. James
believes that he is reacting to his present teacher who ignores him. She says that Mike
got along beautifully with his last teacher, "even though she was overly stern." Mrs.
James has gotten no satisfaction from either the school psychologist or the principal.
"They try to tell me I'm the problem. They say I'm too permissive. I say they're looking
for the easy explanation to a complex problem." In your initial session the first thing you
should do is...

a. point out that Mike's successful adaptation to an "overly stern" teacher suggests
the importance of structure for Mike
b. take a comprehensive developmental history of Mike
c. ask whether or not Mike has been physically or sexually abused
d. determine what Mrs. James means when she says this is a complex problem

5". Jimmy, age 11, lacks initiative or spontaneity and lacks friendly feelings for peers
and family. He does, however, reflect a solid sense of responsibility and is basically self-
reliant, not dependent on others. During sessions you also notice that Jimmy tends to be
fearful of his parents. They want you to "train him to become more normal." Your
treatment approach should recognize that Jimmy's problems are most likely due to. ..
a. overpermissiveriess and indulgence
b. lack of discipline
c. harsh, overly severe discipline
d. hyperparathyroidism

6". You are providing services in a community mental health day treatment program.
Before speaking with other program staff about your new day treatment client, Doris,....
a. you must obtain Doris‘ written consent to release information to the other staff
members
b. you need to obtain written confirmation from the other staff that they will treat the
information in confidence _
c. you should let Doris know that information will be shared between staff members
but you do not need to obtain her consent before doing so
d. you should encourage Doris to provide the various staff members with
information from your intake assessment

7". If you learn that a minor client, now deceased, has been abused 
a. you may report to CPS but are not required to report
b. you must report to CPS regardless of whether or. not the abuse was a factor
contributing to the death
c. you must report to CPS but only if you have a reasonable suspicion that the abuse
was a factor contributing to the death
d. you may report to CPS but only if you have the consent of the deceased child’s
parents or legal guardians

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 220 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

8". You are interviewing a chemically dependent person who has just been referred to
you for service at your private practice. After explaining the nature of the services you
have to offer, the individual says that he will forego therapy and try to overcome his
problem on his own, as he has done before. You should... ’
a. inform the individual of the potential consequences of taking such an action
ab. accept his decision without commenting on it in respect for his self-determination
c. arrange for a family confrontation to help him overcome his denial and
minimization of his problem
d. encourage him to accept treatment in a residential treatment program which will
have more to offer than treatment in outpatient therapy

9". You are working with a process oriented psychotherapy group, now in its fourth
session. During the first three sessions participants‘ behavior was rather polite and
stereotyped. Now, however, group members are beginning to argue, sometimes over
seemingly trivial matters. Tension and conflict are increasing. You should...
a. encourage norms of courtesy and respect instead of conflict and disagreement
b. reassert your position of authority and leadership
c. regulate conflict without suppressing it, and facilitate members‘ efforts to work
toward resolution
d. help the group members understand the psychodynamic forces that trigger such
disruptions

10". Your client has just learned that he will require surgery for treatment of persistent
lower back pain. However, he is extremely fearful and says that he will refuse the surgery
unless he can get help in reducing his anxiety. In using the behavioral technique of stress
inoculation training you should use all of the following procedures except...
a. I encouraging the client to fully ventilate his fear and elaborate his Various
catastrophic expectations
b. providing the client with information about surgery and how other people have
dealt with it
c. teaching the client positive and adaptive self-statements
d. engaging the client to practice making his positive and adaptive self-statements
while being exposed to a variety of painful or threatening stimuli

11". Several days after you make a child abuse report, a CPS investigator arrives at your
office asking for information about your minor client. Under the law you...
a. may give info “nation to the investigator
b. may give information to the investigator only if he or she has a search warrant
c. a may not give information to the investigator unless you have the client’s consent
d. may not give information to the investigator even if you have the client’s consent

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009 A

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 221

 

12". Your 60 year old client has increasingly been having occasional lapses of immediate
recall and recent memory over the past year. Her loss of cognitive function has been
gradual and steady over time. In conducting your diagnostic workup you should expect to
find that your client's cognitive disorder is most likely due to...

a. amnestic disorder
b. vascular dementia
c. Alzheimer's dementia
d. brain injury

13". You are forming a psychotherapy group focusing on problems of anxiety in
interpersonal relations. You will have a total of eight clients. Your first six clients, five
men and one woman, are of limited psychological sophistication. You should select
which of the following as your next two clients?
a. two women who are psychologically sophisticated
b. two people of either gender who are psychologically sophisticated
c. two men of limited psychological sophistication
d. two women of limited psychological sophistication

14". Your socially phobic thirty-five year old African American client has been working
on developing self-assertion skills. In order to achieve the most rapid development of
self-assertive behaviors you should teach the client to reward himself...
a. whether or not he has engaged in self-assertive behavior
b. each time he engages in self-assertive behavior
c. when he engages in self-assertive behavior, but only about 25% of the time these
behaviors occur
d. only when anxiety prevents the performance of self-assertive behaviors

15". Your new client is a fifty-two year old woman of an ethnic culture other than your
own who generally tends to be overly suspicious of others. In order to improve your
chances of establishing trust and credibility with your client the first and most important
thing for you to do is...
a. be sure your verbal and nonverbal expressions are congruent A
b. freely and honestly express your thoughts and feelings as they arise during
sessions  
c. take a directive, authoritative stance
d. help the client understand the transference nature of her suspiciousness

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009 A

Page 222 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

16". You have been treating a client with posttraumatic stress disorder resulting from the
client's involvement in a serious automobile accident. You have been treating the client
for over eight months with no significant improvement in the client's symptoms. You
should...
a. increase the frequency of therapy sessions
b. increase the duration of therapy sessions
c. try shifting to a family oriented approach
d. discuss the possibility of termination with the client, to be followed by referral to
another therapist

17". Carla T. began experiencing discrete periods of intense anxiety three months ago.
These attacks are not precipitated by any identifiable stressor or other stimulus. In
gathering additional information to determine the cause and nature of these episodes of
anxiety you should rule out, or arrange to rule out, all of the following except...
a. mitral valve prolapse
b. premenstrual syndrome
c. hyperthyroidism
d. specific phobia

18". You make an assessment and determine that a 45 year old man’s serious suicide risk
is due to a major depressive episode and that inpatient hospitalization is needed. In
checking with the man's managed care plan for preadmission authorization you are told
that the plan will only pay for outpatient treatment and monitoring at this time. Your first
course of action should be to...
a. recommend admission to the inpatient unit
b. discharge the man from the emergency service to outpatient follow up
c. recommend that the man be allowed to stay in the emergency service until his
health and medications are stabilized
d. ask the client to decide on either inpatient or outpatient treatment, without trying
to influence the client's decision

19". When assessing and treating individuals who have schizophrenia it is especially
important that you monitor for suicide risk...
a. during acute psychotic episodes
b. during residual phases between psychotic episodes
c. if there has been a marked deterioration in functioning from premorbid levels
d. during acute phases that involve thought disorder as a symptom

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 223

20". One of your clients is a twelve year old boy who has been stealing from his parents.
He has also been provoking fights and has been destroying public property for the past
year. You should focus your treatment plan on...
a. residential treatment in a group home
b. referral for neuroleptic medication
c. Behavior Modification and Family Therapy
d. Eye Movement Desensitization Therapy

21". You develop a reasonable suspicion that your 14 year old client is being physically
abused by her father, but you have no physical evidence or direct statement from the child
claiming abuse. When you mention the case to your supervisor she tells you to hold off
until you have physical evidence or a direct statement from the child. You should...
a. follow your supervisor's instructions
b. appeal to your supervisor's supervisor
c. discuss the matter with the child's father before making the report
d. make the report during the required time frame, regardless of your supervisor's
instructions

22". A 16 year old girl, Bonnie, has a long history of ADHD which has only recently
been treated with Cylert. Bonnie appears emaciated and has been eating very little. She
becomes easily nauseous when she does eat. She says "I thought it was cool at first but
now I think I'm too skinny." In your assessment you should address the fact that Bonnie's
weight loss is probably due to... I

a. anorexia nervosa
b. bulimia nervosa
c. the side effects of CNS stimulants
d. the excessive activity caused by her ADHD

23". Your client has a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder. The client has
recently been referred to Dr. Mendez for medications to treat a co-occurring depression.
The client complains that the physician is cold and rejecting and says that she feels worse
whenever she sees her. The client asks if you would speak to her "to get her to improve
her bedside manner." You should...
a. keep in regular communication with the doctor to avoid splitting
b. call the doctor to see whether or not the client's complaints are true
c. call the doctor to stress the importance of therapeutic alliance when working with
a borderline client
d. refuse to communicate with the doctor and encourage the client to express her
concerns to the doctor directly

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 224 I MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

24". Prior to the delivery of therapy services via telephone the therapist...
a. is required to obtain informed consent to treatment only in those instances where
it would have been required for face to face therapy
b. must obtain either verbal or written consent from the client
c. must obtain both verbal and written consent from the client with a specified list of
issues addressed
d. must obtain written consent from the client using a specific form available
through the State Department of Health Services

25". Your new client asks for "short term therapy, you know, something behavioral". In A
your professional judgment the client's goals are much better suited to long term
psychodynamic therapy. You should... ’
a. withhold comment and provide the requested short term behavioral approach
b. express your opinion but only if the client asks
c. make your opinion clear and explicit during the initial interview
d. terminate and refer the client to a therapist who believes a short term behavioral
approach is appropriate treatment for this problem

26". Mrs. G is in crisis and feels overwhelmed by changes in her life since her husband
died seven months ago. Your approach to Mrs. G should help her...
a. explore the history of her relationship with her husband, which was probably
characterized by dependency
b. identify a list of specific problems, prioritize them, and identify a variety of
possible solutions for each, one at a time
c. develop a more spiritual outlook for a sense of "the big picture" of her life
d. understand the transference nature of her bid for dependency on you

27". According to your client Meg, her daughter Bonnie, age 17, said that Meg's husband
molested her when she was 8 years old. Meg says she can't believe it and her husband
denies it, but she feels torn because her daughter is so upset and having a hard time. She
asks you to help figure it out. You should...
a. meet with Bonnie to see if what she has to say raises a reasonable suspicion of
child abuse
b. call the police to make a I‘“1“11u"t6d r“port
c. arrange to meet with Meg's husband to see if you believe Bonnie's claim is true
d. not address any individual's concerns but approach the family as a system

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 225

 

28". Mr. and Mrs. J, a couple in their late 7 0's, seek help because of recent changes in
Mr. J's behavior. According to his wife he seems depressed and is becoming increasingly
forgetful. He is disorganized and is unable to carry out simple and formerly familiar
tasks. Mrs. J says that Mr. J has gotten very angry lately and has threatened her with his
cane. Mr. J's problem is most likely due to...
a. amnestic disorder and Parkinson's disease
b. delirium and primary degenerative dementia 
c. dementia of the Alzheimer's type and personality change due to a medical
condition
d. rumination disorder and reactive attachment disorder

29". Your client, Mr. T, is a psychologically unsophisticated but intelligent middle aged
man. After two months of therapy you find that he generally uses therapy sessions to
"vent my spleen." He expresses anger, frustration, fear and guilt about a wide variety of
issues. Your most important intervention at this point should be to...
a. encourage ventilation as a means of releasing pent up feelings
b. listen empathically in order to strengthen the therapeutic alliance
c. make a behavioral inventory of the client's verbal expressions
d. clarify the purpose of Mr. T's therapy and explore whether or not his ventilation
can be done in a way that serves that purpose

30". You are providing therapy to a family in which one of the family members requests
that you inform his probation officer regarding his participation and progress in therapy.
You...
a. may provide the information based on the client’s verbal authorization
b. may provide the information only based on the client’s written authorization
c. may provide the information based on the verbal authorization of each
participating family member who is competent to execute a waiver
d. may provide the information only with a written authorization from each
participant in the therapy who is competent to execute a waiver

31". Linda J. reports that her husband has battered her on two occasions over the past
month. She is extremely fearful, afraid that the battering will escalate, and she is
confused about how to deal with the situation. You should emphasize to your client
that...
a. the battering is not her fault
b. battering tends to stabilize rather than escalate over time
c. she should make a behavioral inventory to determine which behaviors on her part
trigger or reinforce battering behaviors by her husband
d. she should report her husband to the local police

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 226 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

32". A battered woman is seeing you for treatment of posttraumatic stress. She informs
you that her husband has threatened to kill her. He owns a gun. She is afraid that if her
husband finds out that she has told you about his abuse, he will follow through on his
threat. Your first action should be to...
a. urge your client to leave her husband and move to a shelter for battered women
b. make a report to the local police whether or not the client consents
c. inform your client of her options
d. interview the husband in order to help him avert behaving in a way that will cause
problems for both his wife and himself ‘

33". The law requires that, when providing therapy services over the telephone you...
a. must provide the client with the option of changing from telephone contacts to
face to face contacts at any time
b. must provide the client with a BBS pamphlet describing the potential risks,
consequences, and benefits of telemedicine
c. must provide the client with a description of the potential risks and limitations of
telemedicine
d. must ask the client whether or not he or she has any questions about the procedure
of receiving therapy by telephone, and answer all such questions in writing

34". Bill K, age 28, has been troubled by schizophrenia since age 17 . He is living with
family members who are committed to his support and offer a highly structured
environment with a regular schedule of activities for Bill. They are exceptionally
expressive of love and affection with Bill and with one another. Bill has an unusually
high rate of decompensations and hospitalizations, however he tends to stabilize after
relatively short stays before returning home. In working with Bill's family your first
course of action should be to... I .
a. encourage the family to be less emotionally expressive with Bill
b. help them identify the specific events that trigger Bill's decompensations so that
they can arrange to avert these situations in the future
c. encourage them to require Bill to move out and live on his own so that he may
develop a better sense of autonomy
d. advise them to advocate for longer hospital stays so that Bill can recompensate
more fully before returning home

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 227

 

35". You and your client have developed a well structured plan for behaviorally
managing symptoms of dysthymic disorder. In order to evaluate the client’s progress
your best approach is to...
a. provide your client with a consumer satisfaction questionnaire
b. use a Beck's Depression Inventory with your client at the beginning of treatment
and at regularly scheduled intervals
c. ask an independent judge to interview your client before and after treatment
d. obtain testimonials from your client regarding the treatment plan’s effectiveness

36". When making a mandated report to a child protective agency, all of the following
information must be provided, with one exception. Which type of information is not
required to be included in your report?
a. your name
b. the present location of the child
c. the nature and extent of the injury
d. the identity of the perpetrator

37". You and your client, who is diagnosed with dysthymic disorder, have developed a
Well structured plan for behavioral management of these symptoms. Your role as a
therapist using Cognitive Therapy will primarily be to...
a. explain, provide structure to sessions, ask questions, and assign homework
b. encourage self-exploration, clarify, interpret
c. identify goals and boundaries, set limits, and monitor behavior
d. challenge, confront and encourage

38". You have just received an MMPI report on your client, an African American
woman 27 years of age. Which of the following scores should you assess with caution
due to the risk of artificially high ratings?
a. paranoia and schizophrenia
b. psychopathic deviance and masculinity-femininity
c. hypochondriasis and hysteria
d. hysteria and hypomania

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 228 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

39". You have initiated therapy with a thirty-six year old African American woman who
is also a marriage and family therapist. You suspect that your client is using an
exceptional degree of projection as a defense mechanism. Your best approach for
determining the validity of your hypothesis is to...
a. observe during clinical sessions to determine whether or not the client presents
with repeated patterns and themes involving projection
b. refer to a psychologist for projective testing
c. refer for projective testing to any professional who has been trained in performing
these tests
d. directly ask the client if she tends to use projection as a defense mechanism

40". An angry man with a history of violence comes to the crisis center seeking help. He
says that if he doesn't get help soon "I'll explode and I can't be responsible for what
happens." In interviewing this client you should...
a. rely on standard measures, rather than your own "gut feeling" or clinical
impressions to determine the client's degree of dangerousness
b. sit behind a desk when interviewing this client
c. summon a second staff member to participate in the interview with you
d. focus on the client's potential for future violence, not on his history of violence

41". As a marriage and family therapist at a family service agency you have just formed
a psychotherapy group that will be dealing with issues of anxiety and various problematic
character traits. During the orientation phase of this group's development you should...
a. inform clients that you cannot guarantee that all participants will honor their
confidentiality
b. assure clients that their confidentiality will be protected, unless disclosure is
required by law
c. assure clients that their confidentiality will be protected, but only after receiving
signed oaths of confidentiality from the group members
d. inform clients that each is free to make their own decisions about the value of
confidentiality among members of the group

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009
MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 229

 

42". You work for a local nonprofit community based organization which has
historically pursued the mission of helping new immigrants adapt to "mainstream"
American culture by developing multicultural support networks, learning English, and
adapting former job skills to the local job market. It is your impression that what is really
needed is a campaign designed to help the local community adapt to the new immigrants
instead of the immigrants adapting. You should...
a. ignore the organization's mission and pursue the more effective approach
b. gather information to persuade your supervisor, and eventually the agency’s board
of directors, to change the agency’s mission
c. pursue the community organization approach, but only if your supervisor is
willing to represent your work as direct practice when reporting to the agency’s
director
d. pursue the community organization approach, but only if the clients on your
caseload agree

43". Your client, a 22 year old college senior, reports a disturbing increase in anxiety,
psychomotor agitation and restlessness, irritability and insomnia over the past four
months. She reports no unusual stressors over the past year, other than the persisting
stress of school performance expectations. In order to rule out the most likely possible
causes of this anxiety you should determine...
a. whether or not the client smokes tobacco
b. whether or not the client was traumatized as a child
c. the client's cultural orientation
d. how much coffee the client drinks

44". Joshua is a seven year old who has become increasingly irritable over the past year.
His mother says he has a short temper and becomes angry and humiliating toward others
who cause him the slightest frustration. Your assessment should recognize that Joshua's
irritability is probably a sign of...
a. a manic episode
b. depression
c. a developmentally appropriate personality trait
d. an impulse control disorder

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 230 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

45". Jackie J has a dissociative identity disorder. Your best approach is to provide, or
refer the client for...
a. family therapy including Jackie's sister, mother and the mother's former boyfriend
b. antipsychotic medication to deal with the client's break from reality
c. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy to change the client's beliefs about her false
identities
d. hypnotherapy and psychotherapy to foster communication among the identities
with the goal of eventual integration

46". Your client is a physically healthy twenty-eight year old woman who presents with
discrete episodes of intense anxiety that peak within ten minutes and appear to be
untriggered by any particular stimulus or event. Your client says "they seem to come out
of the blue." The best treatment for your client's presenting symptoms is...
a. Psychoanalysis
b. flooding
c. systematic desensitization
d. cognitive behavioral therapy

47". Bob K. has dangerously high blood pressure. His anxiety level is exacerbating his
medical symptoms. Which of the following treatment techniques should you use, or refer
for, if the goal is to teach Bob to lower his blood pressure and reduce muscle tension?
a. modeling
b. eye movement desensitization
c. biofeedback
d. imaginal flooding

48". You have received a new referral from your colleague, a family practice physician.
Prior to interviewing the client you have an opportunity to review the medical record
where you see that the client has effectively been taught Kegel exercises by the physician.
This indicates that your client is...
a. a woman who has had a problem of orgasmic functioning
b. a man or a woman who has had a problem of orgasmic functioning
c. a person with schizophrenia who has had a problem in social functioning
d. a person with Alzheimer's disease

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS   Page 231

 

49". Your client is a 20 year old Latino student whose father and uncle insist on
participating in sessions. They state that close family ties are the way of their culture and
that you have an obligation to be culturally sensitive and honor their family ties. Your
client is angry at his father and uncle and resentful over what he considers to be their
attempt “to live my life for me.” He insists that you refrain from communicating with
them about him or his case, and he refuses to include them in sessions. You should...
a. honor the father and uncle’s request, explaining to the client the cultural value of
close family ties
b. inform the client that because you are obliged to honor his culture by including his
family members, you will have to terminate services if he insists on excluding
them
c. honor the client’s request
d. honor the client’s request, but see the father and uncle separately to help them deal
with their difficulty in accepting your client’s need for autonomy

50". Jack J appears to be deeply depressed and agitated. He has a serious problem with
use of alcohol and marijuana. It is your impression that the depression symptoms area
consequence of his substance use. Your most appropriate approach would be to provide
and/or refer for...
a. simultaneous treatment of both the depression and the substance abuse
b. treatment of the depression, if still present, only after substance abuse treatment
has succeeded in achieving sobriety .
c. treatment of the substance abuse, if still present, only after intervention has
succeeded in overcoming the depression
d. treatment of neither the depression nor the substance abuse until Jack has been
able to abstain from substances for at least one Week

51". Your alcohol dependent client, who has been in psychotherapy with you for the past
three months, also has a diagnosis of major depression and has been on tricyclic
medications. He expresses interest in attending Alcoholics Anonymous. You should...
a. support him in his efforts to attend A.A.
b. inform him that use of prescribed medication is not acceptable for A.A. members
c. consult with his physician about decreasing, then terminating his use of
medication so that he can meet A.A.'s requirement that he be drug free
d. advise him to choose between A.A. and psychotherapy since the two approaches
are incompatible

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 232 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

52". Your client has a life long problem of affective lability, anger, suicidality, identity
confusion and a sense of "emptiness." The client views life, and the people around her, as
either sublime or absolutely hellish, with such swings lasting for several weeks to months
at a time. For the past two weeks the client has felt much better than usual, and attributes
much of her improvement to the therapeutic work you've done with her. Your best
approach at this point in time is to...
a. capitalize on her recent improvement by focusing on how to maintain it
b. help her take full credit for her improvement rather than attribute it to you
c. help her acknowledge some of the problems she is still having in addition to her
gains ’
d. terminate in view of her improvement

53". In your efforts to monitor your countertransferences you notice that you have been
trying to present a facade of calm and relaxation, even when your client expresses
hostility toward you and in spite of the fact that you actually feel annoyed when faced
with the hostility. In order to maintain a trusting and therapeutic relationship your best
approach is to...
a. continue to suppress expressions of annoyance
b. work with a consultant to overcome your feelings of annoyance
c. let the client know that you feel annoyed when he expresses hostility
d. express hostility in return, but at no greater level of intensity than the client's

54". Andrea H applies for therapy at your mental health clinic because of depression.
She has been thinking about suicide but she doesn't want to die. She appears to be very
dependent, even in the first session, as she asks for your advice on several major life
decisions. You explain to her that your role in therapy will not be to give advice but to
help her come to her own decisions about these issues. As a result she decides not to
enter therapy saying "I guess this therapy thing isn't what I'm really looking for after all."
The first thing you should do is...
a. reverse your stance and offer to give advice as a means of engaging the client
b. inform your client that her suicide risk may increase if her depression goes
untreated
c. arrange for an involuntary hospitalization in view of the client's suicide risk
d. contact a family member who might be able to encourage the client's acceptance
of therapy

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 233

 

55". Your client, who recently immigrated to this country from Mexico, grew up in a
working class family and identifies strongly with her Mexican culture. She presents With
a variety of mood symptoms and somatoform symptoms. In assessing the nature of
symptoms with this client, you are likely to find that she views...
a. mental functioning as the result of physical or biological functioning
b. physical or biological functioning as the result of mental functioning
c. mental and physical functioning as closely integrated, not sharply differentiated
d. mental functioning as spiritually determined, whereas biological functioning is
seen as physically determined

56". You are providing services in a federally funded substance abuse treatment
program. After conducting your intake interview with a new client you want to share
information with a co-worker who will be assigned to become the client's primary
therapist.
a. You must obtain the client's explicit consent before sharing information with your
co-worker.
b. Your co-worker must obtain the client's explicit consent before receiving
information from you about the client.
c. You may share information with your co-worker without the client's consent.
d. You may not share drug and alcohol related information with a co-worker, even
with the client's consent. Encourage the client to share the information.

57". Ms. J is requesting long term Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy in order to overcome
the anxiety she feels when she has public speaking engagements. She will be paying for
services out of pocket. You should...
a. inform Ms. J of reasonable therapeutic alternatives that are likely to be just as
effective but less costly, before proceeding with a course of therapy
b. recommend Behavior Modification Therapy instead because of its proven efficacy
with the target symptom
c. refuse to accept her for service in View of the inappropriateness of her request
d. provide the requested service

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 234   I MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

58". Don B. is deeply depressed and has been thinking about suicide. He has never
before received mental health services. Now he has come to your mental health agency to
inquire about services because of pressure from his wife and sister. When you explain
that therapy will involve discussion of very personal issues and raise the possibility of
hospitalization, if necessary, Mr. B begins to leave the room saying "No thanks. I'll have
nothing to do with any of this nonsense." You should...
a. arrange to impose an involuntary hold immediately
b. inform Mr. B of the consequences of refusing treatment
c. call Mr. B's wife and sister and inform them of the need to encourage Mr. B's
participation in therapy
d. promise Mr. B that you will not hospitalize him as a means of getting him through
the initial engagement phase of therapy

59". Your client's insurance company is requesting information about the nature of his
mental disorder. In obtaining his informed consent for release of information you must
be sure that written consent includes all of the following except....
a. the name of the person or organization to which disclosure is to be made
b. the purpose or need for the disclosure
c. the date, event or condition upon which it will expire without expressed
revocation
d. the circumstances under which information may be shared without the client's
consent

60". You are treating your client, Mr. T, to reduce the severity of some of his symptoms
of paranoid personality disorder. He has been having interpersonal problems with co-
workers and supervisors on his job as an auto mechanic. As an adjunct to the work you
will be doing with him, you refer Mr. T to a mental health clinic across town which will
be able to offer him a group in which he can develop and practice assertive
communication skills. When releasing information to this agency you should inform the
agency that... 
a. the client's consent has been obtained
b. the client's consent should be obtained by that other agency before further
disclosure to third parties 
c. you cannot verify the validity of information obtained by the client
d. the disclosure is being made in compliance with all applicable federal and state
laws and regulations

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 235

61". The greatest problems in developing treatment plans for dual diagnosis clients (both
substance dependence and primary mental disorders) include all of the following except...
a. difficulty in determining whether symptoms are substance induced or primary
b. the client’s tendency to deny the nature or severity of the chemical dependency
c. the therapist’s lack of familiarity with both kinds of conditions
d. the intractability of primary mental disorder symptoms while a person is using a
substance 

62". When you file a mandated report with Children’s Protective Services your identity...
a. is confidential, although it may be released to the police
b. is confidential, although it may be released to the press
c. is confidential, although it may be released to the County Health Officer
d. is a matter of public record and not confidential

63". Under the Elder and Dependent Adult Abuse Reporting Act, a “dependent adult”
is...
a. any person over the age of 18 who has a conservator or public guardian
b. any person over the age of 18 who has a serious physical or mental disorder
c. any resident of this state between the ages of 18 and 64 under the care of a
physician for an acute physical or mental condition
d. any resident of this state between the ages of 18 and 64 whose physical or mental
limitations restrict their ability to carry out normal activities

64". You are developing a comprehensive psychosocial assessment of a client from
India. When asked about the psychosocial adjustment of others in his family, the client
informs you that his brother has a long history of dhat. Your assessment should recognize
that the brother is most likely to have experienced any of the following symptoms
except...
a. hypochondriacal concerns associated with the discharge of semen
b. hallucinations
c. fatigue
d. severe anxiety

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 236 < MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

65 ". You are providing services at your county’s family reunification program. In order
to evaluate how efficiently you have achieved your clinical goal of returning children in
foster care to the homes of their natural parents, you should conduct...
a. a cost-benefit analysis 
b. an outcome effectiveness study
c. a consumer satisfaction survey of both foster parents and natural parents
d. a community needs assessment study

66". Which of the following tests should you obtain if your primary purpose is to obtain
information about your nine year old client's information processing and fine motor
skills?
a. Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children
b. Achenbach Checklist
c. Bender Gestalt
d. Sentence Completion Test

67". You have just formed a new psychotherapy group for treatment of young adults
with a variety of anxiety and mood disorders. The members of your new group focus on
you as the leader during the initial sessions. Your response should be based on the
understanding that this indicates...
a. that the group members tend to lack a sufficient internal locus of control
b. that the group is behaving normally as most groups would
c. that you are being too directive and authoritative
d. that the group is unlikely to develop sufficient cohesion

68". You are supervising an MP T Intern whose work with clients is marginal. You
should advise your supervisee to...
a. keep clinical documentation which meets the standard of accuracy and
thoroughness that would be expected of any MFT
b. keep minimal documentation as a way of protecting against potential liability -
c. keep sufficient documentation to support insurance claims but include no other
information in the clinical record 
d. keep minimal documentation in the formal record, and keep clinically necessary
documentation in a separate personal record which would be inaccessible to the
client

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 237

 

69". Your client, a 52 year old woman, has just lost her husband who died in an industrial
accident. Her 30 year marriage was troubled by frequent arguments and hostility. In your
assessment you should expect that which of the following would be least likely to occur?
a. social withdrawal 
b. idealization of the deceased husband
c. depression 
d. delusions that the deceased husband is still present in the house

70". At a crisis clinic, each of your next four intakes has experienced one of the
following traumas. You should expect that the one most likely to have a posttraumatic
stress disorder is the one who experienced...
a. rape
b. the witnessing of a murder
c. a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tornado
d. an automobile accident

71". Your supervisee is an MFT Intern. She holds no graduate degrees other than her
masters degree in counseling psychology, and she holds no other professional license.
While she was on vacation you were providing coverage to one of her clients who states
that your colleague has represented herself to the client as “a psychologist.” If this is true,
your response to your supervisee should be based on the fact that she has been engaging
in...

a. breach of contract
b. clarification, if the terminology helps the client to understand the nature of the
intern’s practice
c. unprofessional conduct
d. collaboration

72". Your client is an impulsive young Haitian immigrant who is in this country on a
work visa. At the initial session he threatens to kill himself as he rushes out of your
office. Acting in accordance with the legal duty to warn, based on the Tarasoff Decision,
you must...
a. call the client later on to warn him of his dangerousness to himself
b. call the client later on to warn him of his dangerousness to himself, but only if the
client has a specific suicide plan
c. call a family member so that they might take action to protect the client
d. The Tarasoff duty to warn does not apply to this situation.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 238 . MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

73". You are providing social support services to a group of family members of four
mentally ill individuals. All of your clients are Latino. Each of the group members refers
to their loved one as having one of the following conditions. Which of these conditions
would you expect to be the most debilitating?
a. bilis
b. locura
c. ataque de nervios
d. mal de ojo

74". Your client, Angela K, is an anxious twenty-five year old married woman who is
experiencing stress because she has taken a job outside the home. She explains that her
family’s cultural heritage frowns on this because it is a violation of traditional sex role
expectations. You should understand her experience of stress as...
a. role strain
b. oppositional defiant behavior against one’s culture
c. a cultural idiom of distress
d. an adjustment disorder

75". Your client is a 23 year old woman who works as a waitress but feels that she
should be accomplishing more in her work life. She is also concerned about the fact that
she is neither married nor closely involved with a partner. In conducting your
psychosocial assessment you should consider it to be developmentally appropriate for
your client to be struggling with all of the following issues except...
a. developing intimacy
b. individuation from family of origin
c. entering into committed relationships
d. establishing object constancy

76". When initiating services to a new client or client family...
a. the AAMFT code of ethics requires you to inform the client about limitations on
confidentiality
b. state law requires you to inform the client about limitations on confidentiality
c. both the AAMFT Code of Ethics and state law require you to inform the client
about limitations on confidentiality
d. neither the AAMFT Code of Ethics nor state law require you to inform the client
about limitations on confidentiality

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 239

 

77". A thirteen year old can legally consent to counseling related to the diagnosis and
treatment of a drug or alcohol problem if...
a. the minor is mature enough to participate intelligently in the treatment
b. the therapist includes the minor’s parent or guardian, if appropriate
c. the minor is the victim of child abuse or neglect
d. the minor would present a danger of serious physical or mental harm to self or to
others without such counseling

78". In order for a client to give “informed consent” to treatment...
a. the client must be fully informed of your degree, training certificates, and other
credentials .
b. the client must be of average or higher than average intelligence
c. the client’s consent must be appropriately documented
d. the client must demonstrate the extent of their understanding to you

79". You will be using a cognitive restructuring approach to helping your client, lvlr. K, a
45 year old man, deal with his current depressive episode. In using this approach you
should...
a develop a genogram of the client's dysfunctional thoughts
b. develop an empathic, nonjudgmental relationship with the client
c. expect the client to abstain from using alcohol until the depression is resolved
d. determine the original psychodynamic cause of the depression

80". Your client spends from one to two hours each day rearranging the papers and
stationery items on his desktop at the office. He also quietly sings a particular
commercial jingle Whenever he sees two people in any kind of heated debate or conflict.
In your therapy with this client you should use which of the following techniques?
a. flooding and response prevention
b. supportive counseling to help overcome the fear of going insane
c. Kegel exercises
d. family therapy

81". Your client engages in binge eating, followed by self induced vomiting and
excessive exercise to lose weight. Your diagnostic formulation should View this client’s
disorder as...
a. either anorexia nervosa or bulimia
b. bulimia
c. anorexia
d. rumination disorder

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 240 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

82". Which of the following clients is most likely to have a dual diagnosis of substance
related disorder plus at least one other kind of diagnosable disorder? '
a. a 45 year old man who abuses cocaine and is troubled by depression
b. a 23 year old woman who abuses amphetamines and whose social relationships
are characterized by splitting
c. a 35 year old man who abuses alcohol and has memory lapses .
d. an 18 year old young woman who abuses phencyclidine and hallucinates seeing
spiders on the wall

83". Joe J is a thirty-two year old man of European ancestry who has been arrested for
murder. He has a history of manic episodes, grandiosity and auditory hallucinations. He
may be judged to be not guilty by reason of insanity if he can prove that...
a. he has either a schizophrenic or bipolar disorder
b. due to a mental disorder he did not know the nature of the act he was committing
c. he killed in self defense
d. he was hallucinating at the time of the murder

84". A thirty-five year old man has sought your help in resolving long standing and often
violent conflicts between his two children who are now ages 12 and 14. In conducting a
comprehensive assessment of your client’s family dynamics you learn that all of the
following are true. You should consider which of the following findings to be most
indicative of dysfunctional dynamics in your client's family system?
a. family members use vague words and give mixed messages
b. the family‘s relationship patterns have changed very little in the recent past
c. the parents are dominant in family discussions and decision making
d. the parents engage in physical contact with the children

85". Mr. and Mrs. C seek counseling from you at the family service agency to resolve a
marital dispute. Mr. C wants to move to another state to pursue a business opportunity
and Mrs. C wants to remain in their present home. Both are anxious and depressed
because of their intractable arguments but neither meets the criteria for a DSM diagnosis
of mental disorder. Even though they are highly motivated to engage in counseling they
claim that they can't afford to pay for services unless you can help them obtain coverage
from their medical insurance. You should...
a. record a diagnosis of "anxiety disorder NOS" on the client's insurance claim
b. record a diagnosis of "generalized anxiety disorder" because a specific diagnosis
will increase the chances of obtaining coverage
c. review with the couple their ability to pay
d. attempt to obtain a fee waiver from your agency so that the couple can receive
counseling

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 241

 

86". You should most expect which of the following clients to have compliance
problems with their medication regimen?
a. a bipolar client on lithium
b. a hyperactive child on Ritalin
c. a person with generalized anxiety disorder on Ativan
d. a diabetic person on insulin

87". All of the following are symptoms of mental disorder. However, three of these are
also commonly associated with normal development. In conducting assessments, which
of the following should you consider to be least associated with normal development?
a. delusions
b. illusions
c. temper tantrums
d. oppositional behavior

88". You are treating Bobby S, a seven year old boy with severe separation anxiety
disorder and low self-esteem. In addition to a variety of behavior modification
techniques, you are also considering the use of play therapy. Your use of play therapy can
best be effective at achieving which of the following purposes?
a. improved serotonin uptake
b. cognitive restructuring
c. establishing a baseline of a problem behavior in vivo
d. assessment and self-demonstration

89". Your client sought help for anxiety and stress reduction because of recent family
conflicts. After working with the client for five months, the client's therapeutic objectives
have now been achieved. Your next course of action should be to...
a. encourage the client to enter into deeper work on underlying personality problems
that lead to the recent anxiety reactions
b. encourage the client to bring the whole family in for a family systems oriented
therapy
c. plan termination with the client
d. refer the client to a physician to rule out medical causes for the anxiety

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 242 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

90". Your new client is a rather guarded and quiet nineteen year old college student who
sought your help to overcome his fear of humiliation and rejection by others which has
lead to his social isolation. By observing your client's manner of interacting with you in
the office setting you will get a... 
a. meaningful reflection of the client's way of relating to other people in his or her
life
b. grossly distorted picture of the client's way of relating to others because the
client's relationship to you will be influenced by the fact of your authority
c. meaningful picture of the client's way of relating to others, but only to others of
your ethnic culture
d. distorted picture of the client's way of relating to others because the client's
relationship to you will be influenced by transference

91". A 20 year old college student comes to see you in your private practice for help with
recurrent panic attacks. He hints at the possibility of a barter arrangement because he
can’t afford your fee. It would be unethical to accept barter for your services unless you
will be able to demonstrate all of the following conditions except one. Which one?
a. the professional relationship is not distorted
b. the client is able to pay cash for your services but prefers barter
c. the arrangement is clearly expressed in a written contract
d. the arrangement is entered into at the client's request

92''. A psychologist colleague has requested that you provide a consultation involving a
thorough DSM Cultural Formulation for a Latino client who is in treatment for severe
depression. Your report back to the psychologist should address all of the following
issues except one. Which one?
a. meaning and perceived severity of symptoms vis a vis cultural norms
b. idioms of distress
c. effects of cultural differences between the client and clinician on how symptoms
are elicited during interviews
d. the client’s understanding of the clinician's culture

93". A troubled African American family has sought your help in dealing with
intractable conflicts that have arisen over the parents’ differing preferred approaches to I
their children's discipline. In working with this family you will best be able to achieve
conflict resolution by using all of the following techniques except...
a. didactic instruction
b. persuasion
c. identification of common goals between conflicting parties
d. bargaining and compromise

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 243

 

94". Your depressed client has refused to accept your recommendations regarding
medication compliance, exercise, participation in a social support network, and diet.
You...
a. may not terminate with this client because the client’s failure to follow through on
your recommendations indicates a high level of severity
b. may not terminate with the client because client abandonment is prohibited
c. may refer the client to another therapist if termination with you is acceptable to
the client
d. may refer the client to another therapist if you are unwilling to continue to work
with this client

95". You are working with a group of adult clients who were sexually molested as
children. In assessing your clients for the presence of dissociative experience, you should
be looking for all of the following features except one. Which one?
a. derealization
b. depersonalization
c. psychic numbing
d. heart palpitations

96". A new client is referred to you by his family physician for help in adjusting to the
death of his wife. The client tells you that, as a means of managing stress, he repeats
certain statements to himself over and over again. For example, when he feels extremely
anxious he repeats "Do something that will prevent you from thinking about fear" or "Just
think about something else." He says this technique works Well for him. Your diagnostic
formulation should recognize that this client probably...
a. has an obsessive compulsive disorder
b. has an obsessive compulsive personality disorder
c. has learned the technique of making self-statements in Cognitive Therapy
d. is autistic

97". When interviewing clients with personality disorders who are referred to your
private practice by the local probation department, you can make effective use of
questions for all of the following purposes except...
a. to direct the client's attention to certain aspects of the problem
b. as a subtle form of explanation
c. as a subtle form of confrontation
d. as a means of setting limits

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 244 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

98". When using a Solution Focused approach to interviewing, you should address
“exceptions” for which of the following purposes?
a. confronting a client's resistance
b. drawing attention to the client's strengths and coping skills
c. clarifying the client's ambivalences
d. arousing anxiety

99". You are working with a caseload of marginally motivated clients who have been
involved in domestic violence, either as perpetrators or victims. Your use of a Solution
Focused approach should emphasize goals that have all of the following qualities
except...
a. they are perceived by the client as being easy to achieve "
b. they are concrete and specific
c. they focus on next steps, not ultimate goals
d. they are behaviorally defined

100". You are leading four therapy groups at a family service agency. The groups are at
various stages of development and one of the groups is clearly more cohesive than the
others. You should expect to find that the most cohesive group is most likely to be the
one in which members...
a. are most likely to try to influence one another
b. are less likely to change their minds to take on the view of others
c. are less likely to persist in attacking difficult goals because they seek refuge in the
comforting support of the group
d. feel more anxious during group activities because of the interpersonal closeness
and scrutiny

101". You are forming a new support group for parents of drug involved adolescents.
Your approach to group development should be based on the principle that all of the
following will tend to increase the attractiveness of your newly formed group to its
members except one. Which one?
a. fostering a high level of interaction except when conflict emerges
b. encouraging the group to value the individuality of its members
c. pointing out similarities among the members
d. drawing attention to the prestige of the members

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 245

102". Your services have been sought by a blended family. The parents are extremely
hostile to one another and repeatedly threaten separation and divorce. If you were to
assess this family's structure using a Structural Family Therapy approach you would be
paying special attention to...
a. who tends to act in concert with whom, and who tends to act contrary to whom
b. the family's level of comfort with openly expressed affection
c. how self-esteem may lead to covert communications
d. the developmental transitions that the family has experienced

103". Four clients came to your community mental health clinic yesterday. Each of them
claimed to be “in crisis.” Three of them were free of mental disorders prior to their recent
crisis, but one has had an ongoing mental health problem. The one with the ongoing
mental health problem is probably the one whose most prominent presenting symptom
was...
a. anxiety
b. a sense of shame or guilt
c. magical thinking
d. confusion

104". You are designing a chemical dependency treatment program for adolescents at a
mental health agency primarily serving welfare recipients and working poor clients of
European ancestry. You should recommend a treatment program design that will. ..
a. include family members
b. exclude family members in order to foster a sense of autonomy
c. include the use of methadone
d. work toward character restructuring

105". Your new client has experienced excessive anxiety and worry about a variety of
specific situations, both at work and at home, for the past year. Your client has tried to
control the worry but has been unable to. The anxiety is associated with restlessness,
irritability and muscle tension, as well as sleep disturbance. It is especially aroused when
the client has encounters with people in authority, but also in encounters with peers of the
opposite sex. In treating this client your best course of action is to...
a. use relaxation training
b. gradually expose the client to anxiety arousing situations
c. refer for medications and support the client's medication compliance
d. use relaxation training in combination with gradual exposure to anxiety arousing
situations

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 246 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

106". You have four new clients at a dual diagnosis residential treatment program. Each
client’s substance use is characterized by one of the four patterns listed below. Which
pattern is best described as a "self-medicating" form of substance abuse?
a. polydrug abuse during the manic phase of a bipolar disorder
b. PCP abuse by an individual with schizophrenia
c. cocaine use by a person with an avoidant personality disorder
d. alcohol abuse by a person with antisocial personality disorder

107". You have held only one session with your new client, Ms. J ., a young woman who
has sought therapy to improve the quality of her interpersonal relationships. You have
not yet had a chance to discuss what to expect if the two of you meet by chance in the
community. When you see your new client at the supermarket, you should...
a. wait to see how the client wants to approach you
b. greet the client and ask how she feels about this accidental meeting
c. greet her as you might any person in the community, in a simple, friendly manner
and move on
d. carefully observe the client's social functioning in this community setting

108". You have four new clients. Your use of graduated exposure as a treatment
technique will be most likely to be effective with the one whose diagnosis is...
a. a cognitive disorder
b. a phobia
c. a dissociative identity disorder
d. bereavement

109". A client has sought your help to treat a long standing sexual dysfunction. She
reports that she has a recurrent deficit in her experience of sexual fantasies and desire for
sexual activity. You determine that these complaints are not the result of a medical
condition or mental disorder other than a sexual dysfunction. Your best course of action
would be to use any of the following techniques except...
a. teaching the client to observe and carefully evaluate her sexual performance
b. education to overcome misconceptions with accurate information
c. systematic desensitization to reduce anxiety
d. recommending use of masturbation

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS . Page 247

 

110". Which of the following constitutes physical abuse under the Elder and Dependent
Adult Reporting Act? ,
a. use of a psychotropic medication with a dependent adult beyond the period for
which the medication was ordered by a physician
b. use of a physical restraint
c. physical restraint for the purpose of preventing a dependent adult from meeting
with visitors
d. failure to protect from health and safety hazards

111". In determining whether or not your deeply depressed client had the opportunity to
give informed consent before being given electroconvulsive therapy, you must be sure
that all of the following were made known to the client except...
a. the nature and purpose of the treatment
b. the likelihood of success
c. the physician's training in this treatment modality
d. reasonable therapeutic alternatives

112". You are conducting an assessment interview with Cathy, a nine year old child of
Korean immigrants who has been sexually assaulted by her maternal uncle. Assuming
that all four of these questions will be asked, which should you ask last?
a. How are things going between you and your mom?
b. What kinds of things do you and your uncle do together?
c. Does your uncle touch you on your legs?
d. What do you do for fun?

113". You are conducting psychosocial assessments of families applying to adopt a
child. Among other things, your assessments must describe and evaluate these families’
social control mechanisms. In doing so you should be paying attention to all of the
following except...
a. praise
b. expressions of affection
c. "dirty looks"
d. tics

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

A Page 248 , MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

114". Over the years many of your Chinese immigrant clients have complained of a
symptom pattern involving physical and mental fatigue, various pains, sleep disturbances,
and memory loss. In seeking additional information about this condition, you should look
it up under the term...
a. susto
b. neurasthenia
c. taijin kyofusho
d. ghost sickness

115". You are approached for help by a sixty year old African American widow who is
in crisis. She presents with anxiety, depression and a chaotic sense of being
overwhelmed. Before conducting a comprehensive psychosocial assessment with this
client you should first...  
a. formulate a treatment plan
b. determine the underlying cause of the person's crisis reaction
c. ascertain the client's unmet needs beyond the presenting problem
d. make an intake decision

116". Your client has a long history of avoidant and paranoid behavior. He comes to
you for help in dealing with his wife's recent infidelity. If you were using a Cognitive
Therapy approach, helping the client learn ways of effective problem solving for use in
dealing with future problems would be...
a. contraindicated because the focus is on resolving the present problem
b. considered to be an important secondary purpose of your interventions
c. accomplished through interpreting the client's conflicts that have been interfering
with effective problem solving
d. considered to be codependency

117 ". It would be most effective and appropriate for you to take an authoritative,
directive stance involving advice, suggestions, and limit setting with all of the following
clients except...
a. the client who is in a crisis
b. the client who is unable to formulate his or her own sense of direction due to an
organic impairment
c. the client who needs to make a decision about personal goals
d. the client who needs to make a decision about means to accomplish his or her own
goals

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009
MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 249

 

118". Your client occasionally experiences stomach aches and headaches for which there
is no medical cause. When your client recently had a bruise from an accidental fall the
client complained of pain far in excess of what could be explained by the extent of actual
tissue damage. Your diagnostic formulation should recognize that this client presents
with...
a. a psychosomatic disorder
b. a somatoform disorder
c. a cognitive disorder
d. an anxiety disorder

119". You are employed as a therapist by a large mental health organization with a
caseload of previously hospitalized individuals who are troubled by serious and persistent
mental illness. In serving these clients you should exercise independent judgment with
regard to...
a. determining policies
b. determining when to make a mandated report
c. determining procedures but not policies
d. determining workload and case assignments

120". Jackie S avoids the conscious awareness of conflict. When she sees other people
express hostility to one another, she interprets that as their way of getting close. She says
that such conflicts are a form of intimacy, even when the conflicting parties are saying
extremely hurtful things to one another and engaging in "character assassination." Your
assessment should recognize that this tendency reflects a problem with which of the
following ego functions?
a. judgment
b. sense of reality
c. adaptive regression in service of the ego
d. reality testing

121". In conducting assessments of a broad cross section of clients, you should expect to
find that fantasies and magical thinking are most prevalent at which of the following
developmental stages?
a. early school years, approximately ages 5 through 9
b. middle school years, approximately ages 10 through12
c. adolescence
d. young adulthood

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 250 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

122". Once a fee has been established and a course of therapy has begun...
a. you may not change your fee until the course of therapy is terminated
b. you may change your fee no more than once per year
c. you may change your fee by no more than 10% per year
d. you may change your fee at any time if you provide reasonable notice to the client

123". Your use of extinction as an intervention technique would be most effective with
which of the following clients? a
a. a 6 year old child who is showered with attention when he engages in
inappropriate behavior
b. a 23 year old woman who wants to develop self-assertion skills
c. a 43 year old business executive who wants to overcome her fear of flying
d. a 16 year old who has had failing grades since beginning to use marijuana

124". You are assessing a five year old child who was brought to your attention on
referral by his family’s pediatrician because the child appeared to be extremely shy. Your
assessment revealed all of the following to be true for your young client. Which of these
findings should you consider to be developmentally appropriate?
a. repeated bed wetting
b. limited cognitive ability to see things from your perspective
c. inability to recognize that objects exist apart from one's perception of them
d. identity confusion

125". You have just confirmed that you will be moving to another state in four weeks.
You have submitted your resignation to your present employer, a private nonprofit agency
offering long term counseling for personal and family problems. An ethical approach to
termination with clients who have ongoing service needs requires that you should...
a. have already informed clients that you were planning to leave, even before
confirming the move
b. begin making plans for your clients’ transfer or continuation of service promptly,
but not notify clients until the session before the final session
c. notify clients promptly and begin to discuss plans for transfer or continuation of
service after your termination
d. notify clients promptly but leave it to the clients to make transfer or service
continuation plans independently in order to not foster dependence on you

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS I Page 25 1A

126". Marriage and family therapy professional ethics require all of the following
except...
a. refraining from using one’s professional relationships with clients to further one’s
own interests
b. seeking appropriate professional assistance for one’s own personal problems or
conflicts that may impair work performance or clinical judgment
c. refraining from giving gifts of substantial value to clients
d. refusal to serve clients who are already receiving marriage and family therapy
services from another agency or colleague

127". You are supervising an MFT Intern. Although bright, competent and insightful,
the intern lacks confidence, partly because she is young and physically small. As a result,
her clients have also expressed doubts about her competence and have tended to
prematurely terminate service. You should...
a. advise the intern to work only with young and physically small clients
b. advise the intern to disguise the fact that she is an intern when working with
clients, in order to enhance their confidence and engagement in receiving the help
they need
c. explore the countertransference nature of her self-doubt, and the transference
nature of her clients‘ premature terminations
d. offer psychotherapy to help the intern work through her unrealistic self-doubt

128". You are working in an agency that provides homeless individuals with shelter,
advocacy and problem solving counseling. In working with these clients you should
recognize that all of the following are true except...
a. homelessness may predispose individuals to diagnosable depressive disorders
b. diagnosable depressive disorders may predispose individuals to homelessness
c. substance related disorders may predispose individuals to homelessness
d. homelessness may predispose individuals to panic disorder with agoraphobia

129". You are conducting a differential diagnosis workup with a twenty-five year old
client who is found to be apprehensive, agitated, and trembling. Your diagnostic
formulation should recognize such manifest anxiety as a defining feature of...
a. generalized anxiety disorder
b. conduct disorder
c. conversion disorder
d. catatonia

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 252 I MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

130". In providing long term, psychodynamic insight oriented psychotherapy, you should
take a “blank screen” stance as your manner of relating to clients for the purpose of...
a. eliciting the client's projections
b. maintaining professional distance
c. avoiding fostering dependency
d. encouraging client self-determination

131". You are using direct influence techniques such as advice, suggestion and limit
setting in treating psychologically unsophisticated clients who are in crisis. Your use of
these techniques will be most effective to the extent that the...
a. client has a strong parental transference to the therapist
b. therapist encourages self-discovery and self-direction by the client
c. client has confidence in the therapist as an expert or person with authority
d. therapist offers an appropriate degree of self-revelation

132". Assume that all of these clients have a history of assaultive behavior, and have
recently been making assaultive threats. Your evaluations should reflect that assaultive
behavior risk is highest for the client whose significant others...
a. disapprove of the client's past assaultive behavior
b. support the client's assaultive intentions
c. disapprove of the client's current assaultive intentions
d. are available for support, regardless of the client's subsequent assaultive actions

133". Your client has adopted an infant who now appears to show signs of autism. The
client says that she wants to relinquish the child and rescind the adoption, but that she
would feel very guilty if she did so. You should...
a. encourage the client to do whatever is in the best interest of the child
b. help your client learn how to effectively care for an autistic child
c. refer your client to a support group for parents of autistic children
d. help your client understand the nature of the child’s condition and the
consequences of either keeping or relinquishing the child

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 253

 
134". You are a therapist in a clinic that specializes in treatment of depression. What
proportion of your clients with a major depressive disorder should you expect to also I
have a preexisting dysthymic disorder?
a. 2%
b. 5%
c. 20%
d. 50%

135". An adolescent client tells you that he has been using a drug he calls black beauties.
You should take this to mean that he is referring to...
a. amphetamines
b. LSD
c. tricyclic antidepressants
d. mescaline mushrooms

136". You have been treating a deeply depressed individual using supportive
psychotherapy. Now that the client is about to undergo ECT as an adjunctive therapy,
informed consent must be obtained from the client. In obtaining informed consent under
these circumstances, you must be sure that the client...
a. understands that once consent is given a commitment has been made to complete
the full course of the treatment
b. is of sound mind and able to reason about the decision
c. can explain the reasons for the treatment
d. finds the procedure to be culturally appropriate

137". Your best reason for asking a client to spell the word "world" backwards during an
assessment interview is to test for...
a. attention
b. cooperativeness
c. intelligence
d. abstract thinking

138". You are working with a recently divorced client who has made it clear that she
does not want to change her personality, but simply wants help learning to make
decisions for herself and learning how to meet new people in the community. In
providing the requested problem focused approach, which of the following interventions
should you use last?
a. elicit the client's subjective experience and response to the divorce
b. choose an optimal means of solving the client's problem
c. ask the client "What do you suppose would happen if you tried this approach to
solving your problem? What about this other approach? And this one?"
d. partialize and prioritize the client's problem

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 254 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

139". Nervios ("nerves") is a Latin American syndrome of generalized emotional distress
that tends to be prolonged or chronic. Symptoms may include headaches, body aches,
heart palpitations, a sense of heat in the chest, irritability, gastrointestinal disturbances,
dissociative experiences, insomnia, nervousness, inability to concentrate, persistent
worry, trembling and dizziness. Within the culture it is often attributed to a loss of key
relationships. According to the DSM, when diagnosing a client with this syndrome, you
should....
a. apply multiple diagnostic labels if criteria are met for each; for example,
psychogenic pain disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and insomnia
b. diagnose "nervios" and list it as a V-code NOS (not otherwise specified)
c. do not diagnose a mental disorder because the condition is considered normal
within a culture
d. present these options to the client and ask for the client's preference

140". Your client is a thirty-eight year old woman who has felt a pervasive and excessive
need to be taken care of. This has lead to submissive and clinging behavior and fears of
separation. The problem began in early childhood and has been present in most of her
relationships over the years. Which of the following would be the best treatment
objective for you to pursue in your work with this client?
a. avoid dependency in favor of independence
b. seek dependency and minimize independence
c. invite dependency from others whenever possible
d. vary the degree of dependency and independence in personal relationships

141". Your thirty-five year old client is apologetic, overly concerned with others‘
judgments, and is afraid to be seen. You should expect that this client will probably have
a tendency toward which of the following‘?
a. shame
b. developing schizotypal personality disorder
c. manic episodes
d. adaptive regression

142". A person with a bipolar disorder calls you at the local community mental health
agency to request an appointment. She is in a manic phase, feeling "in crisis," and she is
afraid of losing control and doing something she'll be sorry for. In setting the initial
appointment your best course of action is to...
a. encourage her to have someone accompany her to the initial appointment
b. arrange to make a home visit for the initial appointment
c. arrange for her to make her initial appointment with a physician instead of a
marriage and family therapist
d. ask her to bring records of her prior treatment and hospitalization history to the
initial appointment

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 255

 

143". Your client has been seeing you for counseling regarding how to best care for her
aging mother. In the course of the interview she tells you that she has become depressed
over the past week but doesn't know why. She says that she has had a bad cold for the
past two weeks "but that has nothing to do with it." You should consider all of the
following, except one, to be a possible contributing cause to her depression. Which one?
a. laxatives
b. non-prescription cold medications
c. ibuprofen
d. use of lithium carbonate

144". Your client is a fifty-five year old African American woman who was the Victim
of a violent assault during a robbery at a local convenience store. Since the traumatic
event your client has experienced recurrent nightmares, has avoided reminders of the
trauma, and has become hypervigilent. In treating this client your best course of action
would be to...
a. help the client understand his or her contribution to the trauma in order to reduce
the chances of future trauma
b. teach the client how to anticipate and reduce stressors that exacerbate symptoms
c. teach the client to use the technique of psychic numbing in order to reduce anxiety
d. encourage the client to confront the perpetrator of the trauma

145 ". You are treating a Latino young woman whose sole diagnosis is adjustment
disorder with depressed mood. The client sought your help to overcome symptoms that
have been interfering with her relationships with significant others. Your best course of
action is to...
a. help the client resolve the ego weaknesses that caused the vulnerability to the
crisis
b. teach cognitive restructuring to help the client overcome depressing automatic
thoughts
c. arrange for hospitalization in order to manage suicide risk
d. help the client cope better with the precipitating stressor

146". The following four individuals have concurrently sought help from your agency.
Your prognosis is needed in order to formulate a triage decision. You should consider
which of these clients to be least likely to need urgent intervention? The client with...
a. bulimia nervosa
b. anorexia nervosa
c. brief psychosis
d. obsessive compulsive disorder with delusions

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 256 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

147 ". Clients with which of the following clusters of personality disorders are most
likely to present with psychotic symptoms?
a. schizotypal, histrionic and antisocial
b. narcissistic, avoidant and obsessive compulsive
c. borderline, paranoid and schizotypal .
d. borderline, obsessive compulsive and schizotypal

148". Which of the following does not constitute isolation under the Elder and
Dependent Adult Reporting Act?
a. preventing an elder &om receiving her mail or telephone calls
b. causing fear, agitation, or confusion by threatening to discontinue regular visits to
the elder
c. physically preventing an elder from meeting with visitors
d. telling a caller that the elder does not wish to talk with the caller, contrary to the
elder’s expressed wishes i

149". You should expect clients with which of the following personality disorders to be
most likely to sustain a lasting, stable relationship with a significant other?
a. paranoid
b. borderline
c. antisocial
d. dependent

150". You should most expect to find a history of family members with schizophrenia in
which of the following clients? The client with...
a. brief psychotic disorder
b. adjustment disorder
c. schizotypal personality disorder
d. delusional disorder

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 257

 

151". You are conducting assessment interviews with parolees who are being considered
for a special employment development program. It is essential that your reports to the
parole officers be clearly stated and distinguish subjective inferences from objective facts.
You should consider which of the following findings to be a reflection of inference rather
than fact? 
a. the client presents with autonomic hyperactivity
b. the client is motivated by guilt
c. the client is depressed
d. the client avoids eye contact

152". An MFT colleague has entered into an arrangement with an employee assistance
program which directly pays her fee. 111 this arrangement she has agreed to provide
services to five clients at the rate she regularly charges to serve four clients. This
arrangement is...
a. acceptable if the clients are informed of the arrangement between the MFT and
the EAP
b. acceptable if the reduced fee is within the range of fees charged by other MFT’s in
the local community
c. acceptable if the MFT’s intent is to increase the volume of service she is able to
provide to the community
d. unethical.

153". You will be providing psychotherapeutic help to a depressed individual. The
depressive symptoms involve a variety of vegetative features, as well as excessive guilt
and anhedonia. In establishing a baseline for use as a reference point in marking
subsequent change as treatment progresses, you should take note of all of the following 
except...
a. how often do the depression related behaviors occur?
b. what triggers the occurrence of the depression related behaviors?
c. how long do the depression related behaviors last when they occur?
d. how intense are the depression related behaviors when they occur?

154". You are providing resettlement services to families of recent immigrants from
Southeast Asia. Which families should you characterize as being most acculturated?
a. the ones whose native language and customs are preferred and practiced
b. the ones whose native language is preferred and practiced, but in which the family
has adopted the Southern Baptist religion
c. the ones in which native language and customs are preferred and practiced at
home, but the wider community's customs and language are used in relations with
others in the wider community
d. the ones in which family members associate primarily with people other than
Southeast Asians and few native values are retained

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 258 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

155". Which of the following statements from a client, if said about her therapist, should
you take as an indication that the therapist's manner of relating is empathic?
a. He usually knows exactly what I mean, sometimes even better than I could say it.
b. He uses the same words and phrases over and over again.
c. His concern about me is very obvious.
d. He accepts me the way I am, even though he wants me to be better.

156". You are providing long term, intensive psychotherapy services to a young woman
of low self-esteem who has experienced an eating disorder which is now in remission.
You should pursue an empathic and nonpossessively warm relationship with this client in
order to have the effect of enhancing the client's...
a. depth of self-exploration
b. sense of reality
c. self-assertiveness
d. problem solving ability

157". A sexually assaulted six year old African American child has been referred to you
for a comprehensive psychosocial assessment. In assessing this child, which of the
following should you take to be the strongest indicator of an especially problematic
reaction to the assault?
a the child's willingness to talk about it
b. delayed reactions to the assault
c. emotional disturbances following the assault, but not prior to it
d. absence of ideas of reference regarding the assault

158". You are providing individual psychotherapy to Susan, a 14 year old victim of
father-daughter incest. Susan is also participating in a peer support group and she attends
Parents United meetings with her mother. In order to foster the development of an
empathic relationship, you should use any of the following expressions except...
a. "This must be hard to talk about."
b. "I know that sometimes it seems like no one would believe you, but I believe
you.“
c. "I know you still care about your dad."
d. "What do you suppose might cause him to do that kind of thing?"

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 259

 

159". You are providing psychotherapy to a twenty-one year old, insecure and self-
critical young man. Your treatment plan calls for engaging the client in deeper self-
exploration for purposes of enhancing insight and a better sense of personal integration.
Your sessions are characterized by empathic listening, and use of guided imagery and
psychodrama role plays, with non-judgmental acceptance on the part of the therapist.
Which of the following would be the best way for you to help this client develop a sense
of greater self-acceptance? "
a. through your acceptance of the client .
b. by the client learning and practicing self-acceptance skills
c. by the client learning to make self-accepting self-statements
d. through reassurance and by drawing attention to the client's strengths

160". You are assessing violent offenders in a criminal justice mental health setting.
Which of the following qualities should you take as an indicator of the greatest recidivism
risk?
a. the offense was situational and opportunistic
b. the offense occurred while sober
c. the offender is cautious, even though basically cooperative during the interview
d. the offender's self-concept is global and undifferentiated

161". Which of the following client statements best refers to genuineness on the part of
the therapist?
a. I can learn a lot about myself by talking with her.
b. She is the kind of person who might be willing to lie to me if she knew it would
help me.
c. Her face and her words both give the same message. \
d. She knows what it feels like to go through what I've been through.

162". You are least likely to be found guilty of malpractice for which of the following
reasons?
a. making a child abuse report and providing the police or child welfare authorities
with information about the client that is not related to the abuse A
b. failure to identify suicide risk in a person who later commits suicide
c. identifying suicide risk without making a subsequent intervention to protect the
individual
d. discontinuing service to a deeply depressed person without making plans for their
follow up care ‘

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009


166". In selecting candidates for psychodynamic brief therapy, you should consider
people with narcissistic, borderline or other personality disorders to be poor candidates
because...
a. they tend to want a therapist to be active, whereas a psychodynamic brief therapist
is relatively inactive .
b. they have difficulty managing the anxiety mobilized by the brief approach that
focuses on deep self-exploration of conflictual themes
c. they present pervasive and persistent conditions, and therefore are unable to
benefit from brief therapy
d. their treatment requires real world issues to be brought into therapy, whereas this
approach focuses on exploration of fantasies and experience

167 ". You have been teaching self-instruction to a group of adolescents with attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder. In this context your use of self-instruction should involve...
a. making self-statements geared to evoke alternatives to symptoms
b. bibliotherapy
c. psychoeducation within a group of peers
d. systematic desensitization

168". Your client is a 22 year old African American woman who recently moved to your
urban area from rural Mississippi. You are helping her find local employment. For the
past week she has been "communicating" with the spirits of deceased relatives, seeking
guidance on whether or not to return to her former home. Her family refers to these
experiences as "spells." Although neither she nor her family are troubled by her
symptoms, you recognize the potential for psychotic decompensation. You should...
a. diagnose brief psychotic disorder because of the delusional nature of the symptom
b. diagnose adjustment disorder because the stress of the recent move has triggered
the client's symptom
c. not formulate a diagnosis based on this symptom, but monitor for changes
characteristic of brief psychotic disorder or other psychotic disorders
d. refer to an African American therapist for an independent diagnostic assessment

Page 262 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

169". You are required to make a child abuse report if...
a. it would be reasonable for a person with training and experience similar to your
own to suspect child abuse
b. only if you suspect that child abuse has occurred
c. only if you have direct evidence that child abuse has occurred
d. any of your colleagues who are familiar with a client have reason to believe that
child abuse has occurred

170". Mrs. Henry calls on you, her therapist at the family service agency, to complain
that her son Mike has been placed on Ritalin by a physician for treatment of attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder. Although she agreed to this treatment she is now having
second thoughts because she heard from a neighbor that Ritalin is "an upper." She says
that she has used "uppers" and that that's the last thing Mike needs. She says that she
would like you to accompany her to meet with the doctor and rescind her consent to treat
her son. You should...
a. agree to accompany her, but only if Mike is also present
b. point out that Ritalin has a different effect on ADHD children than it does on
normal adults
c. refuse to accompany her but agree to call the physician to find out why he gave
this prescription
d. ask to speak with Mike directly

171". When practicing the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy technique of exposure therapy
you should...
a. expose your client to scrutiny and confrontation by a group of peers
b. gradually introduce your client to increasingly difficult encounters with a feared
situation
c. direct your client to first examine automatic thoughts, then core beliefs, then core
belief schemas
d. refer your client for a medication evaluation

172". In your Cognitive Therapy approach to a caseload of adult clients with panic
disorder, which of the following techniques should you apply first?
a. suggest coping statements such as “this feeling isn’t pleasant but I can handle it”
b. teach the client to identify antecedents of the panic attacks
c. help the client develop coping strategies for responding to panic attacks when they
arise
d. explain the nature of a panic attack

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS I Page 263

 

173". Which of the following Cognitive Therapy techniques should you use if your
purpose is to effectively bring about symptom reduction when treating a client who has a
panic disorder?
a. identify relevant ambivalences and fixations
b. encourage the client to allow himself or herself to have the symptoms rather than
trying to control and suppress them
c. encourage the client to precipitate symptoms more frequently in order to practice
symptom mastering techniques
d. facilitate the client’s development of personal integration in order to overcome the
experience of self-fragmentation that leads to panic symptoms

174". Jack K. is a deeply depressed and significantly suicidal man, age thirty-three. He
has never before seen a counselor or psychotherapist and is afraid that his coming to
therapy indicates that he is “going crazy” or that other people will think he is “going
crazy.” However, he is afraid of his suicidal thoughts and wants help. During the course
of your initial sessions with this client you should...
a. openly discuss suicide
b. resist the temptation to arouse dependency by increasing the frequency of Visits or
being available for ad hoc appointments
c. determine the client’s degree of suicide risk by speaking with collaterals before
raising the issue with the client
d. let the client know that you and many others will feel responsible if he or she
commits suicide

175". When interviewing a suicidal client you should...
a. note the client’s ambivalence, both the wish to live and the wish to die, and
acknowledge that suicide is one alternative available to the client
b. note the client’s ambivalence, both the wish to live and the wish to die, but do not
acknowledge that suicide is one alternative available to the client
c. only discuss the client’s wish to live in order to enhance the positive
d. only discuss the client’s wish to die since this is the problem that needs to be
resolved

176". You are working with a client whose spouse is terminally ill. The client is
experiencing a sense of crisis and feels as if his life is “out of control.” In order to help
the client develop a sense of control over what might otherwise feel like an anxiety
arousing uncertain future you should...
a. help the client separate his experience of the present stressful event from her
experience of prior crises
b. accept and support the client's defenses
c. engage the client in anticipatory guidance
d. be clear about the time limit for your work together

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 264 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

177". Mimi K is a depressed young woman who can readily recognize the automatic
thoughts that trigger an exacerbation of her depressive symptoms. In order to help this
client modify these automatic thoughts once they have been identified, you should use the
technique of...
a. agenda setting
b. decatastrophizing
c. guided discovery
d. adaptive schemas

178". Your client is an angry young man with a rich fantasy life whose presentation of
self is characterized by boisterousness and bravado. He is insecure and impulsive. What
course of action should you take first when the client tells you that he thinks he is going
to kill a neighbor?
a. carefully assess the severity of the threat and the likelihood of it being carried out
b. inform the police
c. inform the intended victim
d. inform the client that you will be warning the intended victim

179". A victim of domestic violence has come to the hospital for treatment of a
superficial stab wound. The physician refers the patient to you, a staff member of the
hospital’s patient services office, to provide the patient with support and advise her of her
options for dealing with the domestic violence problem. Under the California law
regarding Duty to Report Injury you are...
a. required to notify the police of the injury and identity of the perpetrator, but only
if the physician has not yet done so
b. required to notify the police of the injury and identity of the perpetrator, whether
or not the physician has done so
c. required to notify the police of the injury to the patient, but not reveal information
about the perpetrator
d. not required to notify the police of either the injury to the patient or the identity of
the perpetrator

180". From the perspective of Humanistic Existential Psychotherapy, the authentic self
is...
a. a person's true consciously recognized identity
b. the way in which each person is whole and real, including aspects of the person of
which he or she is not conscious
c. one of the fragmented aspects of self that needs to become integrated with the
transpersonal self and the personal self
d. the aspect of a person that is able to relate in an empathic and warm manner

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 265

 

181". You are working with a middle aged client to develop a better sense of personal
integrity through self-exploratory exercises and guided imagery. Your treatment
approach is based on the principles of Gestalt Therapy. You say to your client “O.K.,
now you’ve made it very clear that you like to be orderly and responsible. Now tell me
some of the ways in which you hate being orderly and responsible.” You should use such
a statement for the purpose of helping the client...
a. test misconceptions
b. generate alternatives to dysfunctional schemas
c. become aware of ambivalences and reclaim responsibility for projections
d. resolve conflicts regarding obsessiveness and compulsiveness

182". Socially useful speech is the target behavior for a mute, regressed person with
schizophrenia. The mutism has not been sustained by reinforcement and the client shows
little evidence of motivation to develop socially useful speech. Which of the following is
the most appropriate technique for you to use in this situation?
a. response shaping
b. behavioral rehearsal
c. extinction
d. covert sensitization

183". Which of the following would be the best reason for you to refer a client to a
psychologist for psychometric testing?
a. to establish a differential diagnosis for a depressed person, for use in treatment
planning
b. to assess the degree of suicide risk for a client with major depressive disorder, for
use in planning a program of clinical risk management
c. to establish a precise baseline of psychomotor functioning for a person with
Alzheimer’s dementia, for use in measuring later progress or decline
d. to identify problematic core beliefs in a person with social phobia, for use in
developing a program of cognitive empiricism

184". What level of occupational functioning should you expect of the average person
who is dependent on Methadone?
a. permanent and total disability
b. part time employment in a highly structured work environment
c. impaired functioning due to euphoria, drowsiness and depression
d. ability to engage in adaptive and productive employment

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 266 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

185". If a client complains of psychiatric symptoms that fluctuate on a seasonal basis,
you should expect to find that the symptoms are most likely to be associated with...
a. anxiety
b. impulse control problems
c. depression
d. cognitive disturbances

186 ". You are interviewing a four year old child who was sexually assaulted by an
unidentified person in the community two days earlier. She is cooperative during the
interview, but is generally anxious and tearful, as she has been since the assault occurred.
When interviewing this child you should...
a. make it clear that you condemn the abuser
b. move from the general to the specific
c. show genuine disgust for the perpetrator and his behavior
d. interview the child in a formal, well structured environment with several others
present

187". Your client is a forty year old man who insists on blaming his wife for the
problems in his life. You suspect that he might be engaging in domestic violence. Which
of the following should you take to be most indicative of this client’s potential for
assaultive behavior?
a. history of suicide attempts and reckless driving
b. a diagnosis of disorganized schizophrenia
c. disturbed object relations
d. significant others are supportive of the intended victim

188". Your evaluation of an eleven month old infant should recognize that, in the course
of normal development, “stranger anxiety” indicates that...
a. the infant is at risk for reactive attachment disorder
b. the process of separation-individuation is proceeding
c. the infant is unable to form attachments to specific objects
d. the infant is developing good impulse control capacities

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 267

 

189". When treating a person who is diagnosed with anorexia nervosa, your first course
of intervention should be...
a. family therapy to identify and resolve the dysfunctional use of food as a means of
expressing retaliation  
b. a medical weight gain program involving bed rest and intravenous or naso gastric
feeding
c. systematic desensitization involving problematic associations with food
d. a behavioral approach in which eating is rewarded with privileges

190". You should use imaginal flooding in the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder
for the purpose of...
a. developing a positive change in the traumatic memory by confronting the anxiety
arousing recollections
b. allowing the client to have permission to express emotions related to the trauma
c. helping the client relinquish the sick role
d. helping the client learn coping skills, relaxation and cognitive restructuring to gain
a sense of control over possible future occurrences of the trauma

191". Your client has recurrent and persistent, ego dystonic thoughts that cause marked
anxiety. The client also engages in repetitive nonfunctional behaviors that she feels
driven to perform. She views these thoughts and behaviors as unreasonable and
problematic and she seeks your help in reducing these symptoms. You should use, or
refer the client for, which of the following treatment approaches?
a. flooding and response prevention
b. changing the family’s reinforcement contingencies
c. aversion therapy
d. learning a set of self-instructions that are incompatible with the obsessions

192". Your client is a 26 year old unemployed single woman who experiences recurrent
uncued panic attacks which are not due to substance use or a medical condition. Which of I
the following steps should you take first in the treatment of this client’s symptoms?
a. providing coping statements
b. teaching the client to identify the antecedents of the panic attacks
c. providing cognitive explanations of the panic experience
d. encouraging the client to face the symptoms

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 268 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

193". Under the California law governing privileged communication, when a client
relinquishes the privilege and asks the therapist to reveal information to the court in a
case currently in process, you...
a. must provide the information to the court, whether or not it is duly requested by
the court
b. must provide the information to the court if it is duly requested by the court
c. may not provide the information to the court, unless it is duly requested by the
court
d. may not provide the information to the court, even if it is duly requested by the
court

194". You have been treating an angry middle aged client for pathological gambling.
She now requests access to her clinical record, but you suspect that she meets the legal
criteria for denying such access. You have a legal obligation to...
a. prohibit the client from seeing the record if you provide a copy to a designated
representative of the client a
b. inform the client that she has a right to have her record reviewed by another
mental health professional to determine whether your judgment regarding
potential harm is confirmed
c. have a third party present when you show the record to the client
d. provide the client only with those sections of the record that might not lead to
misunderstandings or harm "

195". An MFT colleague has referred a client to you for simultaneous provision of
services beyond his scope of competence. He intends to charge the client for time spent
collaborating with you on the client’s behalf. You should inform your colleague that,
under the marriage and family therapy licensing law, he...
a. may not do so under any circumstances
b. may do so if this kind of fee was explained to the client prior to the
commencement of therapy and the client agrees to pay the fee
c. may do so if the client agrees to pay the fee, regardless of when the fee was
disclosed to the client 
d. may do so only if the client is present at the time of the collaboration

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 269

 

196". All of the following statements except one are true with regard to your clients’
right to privileged communication. Which one is the exception? Your client...
a. is protected when you and the client are engaged in applied psychotherapy of a
nonmedical nature, but not when you are engaged in non-psychotherapy services
b. is not protected when the client’s communications with you are sought by the
court in a proceeding to determine the sanity of a criminal defendant
c. is not protected when the client’s communications with you are sought by the
court in a proceeding brought on behalf of the patient to establish his competence
d. is not protected if the client is under the age of 16 and you believe that the child
has been the victim of a crime and that disclosure of the client’s communications
is in the best interest of the child

197". In order to establish a, behavioral baseline for a client who is being treated for a
social phobia, you should...
a. determine the meaning of the phobic reaction
b. determine how often the anxiety arises, how strongly it is felt, and how long it
lasts
c. encourage the client to manage the symptoms by using positive self-statements
d. teach relaxation techniques, then expose the client to the anxiety arousing
situation and determine the strength of the anxiety response

198". Which of the following should you deal with first when doing problem oriented
work with the single mother of an irritable, rebellious and rejecting child?
a. modeling effective empathic listening skills, self-assertion and limit setting
techniques
b. enhancing the client’s identification with the therapist
c. helping the mother to recall her own childhood irritability, rebelliousness and
rejections
d. determining the mother’s unconscious interpretations of the child’s behavior

199". A Mexican American client complains of “mal de ojo” or “mal puesto” when
discussing his vegetative symptoms of a major depressive disorder. You should take this
to mean that the client is...
a. referring to the frequency of his symptoms
b. indicating that there is an hereditary genetic cause of his symptoms that runs in the
family
c. indicating that there is a supernatural cause of his symptoms
d. referring to the severity of his symptoms

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 270 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

200". Your client is a twenty year old man with a long term history of alcohol
dependence. He reports that he now needs to drink less than he used to in order to feel
just as intoxicated. In carrying out your clinical assessment, you should recognize that
your client...
a. no longer has a physiological dependence on alcohol
b. is probably experiencing the effect of liver damage
c. is in an early stage of recovery
d. is probably not being truthful

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

