Page 346 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

70*. Your new client is a 24 year old woman who complains of depression. During the
initial assessment interview you notice that her teeth are chipped and appear ragged. She
also has scars on the back of her left hand. These physical features are not consistent with
her general physical condition. In your diagnostic assessment you should especially be
gathering information about the possibility of...
a. Bulimia nervosa
b. domestic violence
c. marijuana abuse
d. hypothyroid

71*. You just learned that your 8 year old client was physically abused by a teacher.
When making your report to a child protective agency you must include all of the
following information except...
a. the present location of the child
b. the information that led you to suspect child abuse
c. the name of your supervisor, if any
d. the nature and extent of the injury

72*. A minor, age 14, contacts you to request counseling for a drug and alcohol related
problem. The minor says that his parents don’t know that he has sought your help.
Under the law you must...
a. not contact the parents
b. not provide treatment to the minor until you’ve obtained parental permission
c. treat the minor whether or not you have the parents’ permission
d. involve the parents in treatment, if appropriate

73*. Your client is a depressed and angry 30 year old man of a different ethnic culture
than your own. He complains that his culture of origin is oppressive, has antiquated and
stigmatizing views of mental health problems, and has caused him significant stress. You
should...
a. help him see that he has acculturated to a prejudiced View of his culture of origin
b. explore and accept the client’s experience of his culture norm his perspective
c. encourage the client to engage in his culture’s community in order to develop a
more positive view of his cultural origins
d. explore the personality qualities that led your client to develop such a negative view of his culture

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

