MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 337

 35*. You are conducting an assessment of a 45 year old alcohol dependent veteran. You
should use “serial sevens” as an element of the mental status exam to test for this
client’s...
a. concentration and orientation
b. calculation ability and concentration
c. calculation ability and orientation
d. calculation ability and intelligence

36*. The Cunninghams have sought your advice in order to help them better care for, and
adjust to the stress of caring for, Mrs. Cunningham’s mother who has dementia of the
Alzheimer’s type. Mrs. Cunningham’s mother, who lives in an extended care facility,
does not usually recognize either of them. You should advise your clients to...
a. visit infrequently since the mother doesn’t recognize them, but work with the care
facility administrators to be sure she is getting good physical care
b. visit on a regular basis along with others from the extended family
c. visit infrequently to reduce stress on themselves, but to visit for full days at a time
d. maintain social contact, limit visits to one or two visitors at a time, and keep visits
short

37 *. When taking a Psychodynamic approach to therapy, with a Self Psychology
emphasis, you should provide an anxious, adult client with...
a. an opportunity to develop an adequate selfobject by nonjudgmentally empathizing
with the client’s affective experience
b. self-instruction skills that the client can use to reframe his or her own distorted
perceptions
c. encouragement to participate in self-help support groups
d. information about principles of psychodynamic interpretation so that the client
can learn to interpret his or her own motivations as they arise

38*. When conducting a diagnostic workup of a client whose primary language is
different than your own, you should temper your diagnostic impressions with an
awareness that...
a. flow of thought may reflect indicators of cognitive disturbances in the absence of
true cognitive disturbances
b. expression of affect is emphasized when speaking in a secondary language
c. deferential behavior expressed during a clinical interview should be recognized as
reflecting a general pattern of social anxiety, even though it may be culturally based social anxiety 
d. self-effacing behavior is less likely when a client speaks in a secondary language
because the individual is likely to take pride in his or her bilingual skills

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009

