MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 357

115*. Your client is a Latino man with dependent personality traits who has difficulty
making decisions. He is feeling depressed, lonely and isolated. In order to help him
obtain social support you should...
a. refer him to a support group in the Latino community
b. help him uncover the psychodynamic source of his dependent personality traits so
that he will then be able to seek support independently
c. involve family members in therapy sessions for support
d. identify a variety of potential support services and help the client choose

116*. When using a Social Systems Theory based assessment you should use the term
“role conception” to describe...
a. the behavior of a person in a given position
b. how a person in a position thinks others expect him to behave in that position
c. how others expect a person to be and behave in a position
d. a collectively recognized category of persons who are similar in some respect

117*. When providing treatment services to a physically abused 8 year old girl you
a. encourage the child to divert attention from her angry and hostile feelings
b. help the child identify the automatic thoughts that trigger angry and hostile
feelings
c. teach the child how to express anger and hostile feelings in a safe manner
d. help the child talk about feelings related to fearful situations in general, not her
own reactions to her own situation ‘

118*. Which of the following should be considered developmentally inappropriate if
experienced by your adolescent client?
a. excessive energy with little tolerance for sitting long periods of time
b. increased tendency to be amoralistic and nonjudgmental regarding sexuality
c. relatively narcissistic focus on oneself
d. tendency to define one's feelings and beliefs in absolute extremes

119*. If your 30 year old client, a criminal defendant, informs you of his whereabouts on
a particular day, and that information is sought from you by the police, you are required to
assert privileged communication if...
a. the information is involved in a proceeding to determine the sanity of your client
b. the information is related to advice given by you to the client
c. the information is involved in a proceeding brought by the client to determine his
competence
d. you were appointed by order of the court
 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

