MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 347

 

74*. Your client, Luisa G, is a depressed 35 year old married woman who is having
difficulty accessing child care resources now that she has taken a job outside the home.
Her primary language is Portuguese and she speaks very little English. Unable to find a
referral resource fluent in Portuguese you arrange for a translator to participate in your
sessions. You should ask the translator to...
a. make literal interpretations
b. paraphrase the client’s words in order to capture the deeper meaning
c. paraphrase the client’s words, but confirm the paraphrasing with the client before
translating it into English for you
d. speak directly to you, not to the client

75*. You have four clients who have engaged in assaultive and exploitive behavior with
women. Which of your four clients presents the lowest recidivism risk?
a. the one whose behavior has had a compulsive, driven quality
b. the one who offers absolute compliance with the authorities
c. the one whose self-esteem is characterized by a sense of shame
d. the one who has an androgynous sex role self-image

76*. You have been trained in Gestalt Therapy. Your client, who knows this, asks you to
use Gestalt Therapy to help him overcome his nicotine dependence. You are aware from
program evaluation and research studies that the psychoeducational, Cognitive Therapy
approach used at your agency is likely to be more effective and accomplish this client’s
goal in much less time. You should...
a. explain to the client that a more effective and efficient alternative treatment is
available and encourage the client to try it
b. begin where the client is and use a Gestalt Therapy approach
c. use Gestalt therapy, but only after obtaining your supervisor’s permission
d. use an approach which is fundamentally the psychoeducational, Cognitive
Therapy approach, and integrate a variety of Gestalt exercises to enhance the
client’s satisfaction with services

77*. You have been assigned to provide case management services to a homeless
woman, age 66, who has had a long standing problem with alcohol dependence. She is in
denial about the nature of her alcohol related problems, and receives a great deal of
reinforcement for her drinking from her alcohol abusing friends. You should...
a. point out the discrepancies between the client’s beliefs about her drinking and the
actual consequences she has experienced
b. emphasize an educational approach that encourages an exploration of substance
use in general terms
c. let the client know how important it is to you that she abstain from drinking in
order to take better care of herself
d. offer a variety of treatment options so that the client will have a sense of self-
determination when choosing a treatment approach

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

