MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 375

 

188*. You are working with a family. When assessing the family’s adaptation you
should be gathering information about...
a. how well family members communicate with one another
b. how well the family relates to the extended family, neighborhood, and others in
the social environment
c. leadership patterns within the family
d. the family’s effectiveness in achieving its goals

189*. By fully and accurately documenting your client’s diagnosis, symptoms of the Si
diagnosis, and level of distress and impairment resulting from the diagnosis, you can
support your client’s...
a. right to privileged communication
b. access to medical insurance benefits
c. cognitive grasp of the immediate crisis
d. sense of self-esteem

190*. When taking a Humanistic Existential approach to psychotherapy with your
overanxious 24 year old client you will be emphasizing...
a. the quality of the therapeutic relationship
b. the client’s sense of morality and ethics
c. developing an understanding of the underlying causes of your client’s anxiety
d. your client’s participation in social support networks

191*. When using “brainstorming” to help your Cognitive Therapy client generate
modified schemas, you should initially...
a. encourage the client to develop a list of alternative beliefs without considering the
validity or practicality of the alternatives
b. identify alternative beliefs, one at a time, and assess their relative merits
c. focus on the one alternative belief that the client feels strongly about and
encourage the client to think of as many challenges as possible to that belief
d. present the client with a list of many alternative beliefs and encourage the client to
select the one he or she most strongly favors

192*. Asking questions, giving explanations, clarification and interpretation are
techniques you should use if your purpose is to help the client...
a. relax and develop a sense of support from you as the therapist
b. act out her inner life in a manner that can be observed and reflected on
c. gain a sense of control through a cognitive grasp of reality
d. provide opportunities for growth and more adaptive social functioning
 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

