MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 371
 

172*. Your client has been diagnosed with borderline personality disorder. From a
Psychoanalytic Theory perspective, an exploration of her early childhood would be likely
to uncover what kind of difficulty at the separation-individuation stage?
a. denial of the opportunity to differentiate by the caretaker(s)
b. absence of any effort to attempt to differentiate
c. initiation of both the differentiation and individuation processes accompanied by
extreme personal anxiety
d. initiation of the differentiation process coupled with rejection of her individuation
by her caretakers

173*. When taking a Client Centered Therapy approach to your overanxious client, you
recognize that the client has an inherent capacity and tendency to grow and change in a
self-enhancing, self-actualizing direction. From this perspective, your client’s inherent
capacity has probably been...
a. inhibited by social interactions which involve genuine encounters
b. inhibited by social interactions which objectify, judge or depreciate her
c. impaired by living in the present, here and now moment rather than planfully
anticipating the future
d. the result of dysfunctional, automatic thoughts about threatening events

174*. Your clients are a single mother and her two young children. Both children have
been referred to counseling for oppositional behavior at school. The mother explains that
she was shocked when told of her children’s misbehavior as, she insists, “they are
perfectly obedient at home.” She explains that the rules are very clear in her house. She
is always direct with her children about what is and, what is not, acceptable behavior.
The children are expected to follow their mother’s rules without debate or discussion.
Furthermore, she explains that her rules are given without explanation because she
believes that explaining her actions will undermine her indisputable authority. This
mother’s parenting style would best be described as...
a. authoritarian
b. permissive
c. authoritative
d. uninvolved

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

