164*. Your 63 year old client, a woman with a lifelong bipolar disorder, tells you that her
son has severely beaten her on three occasions. over the past month. Under which of the
following circumstances are you not required to report elder abuse?
a. you are aware that your client intentionally provokes the beatings
b. you have no independent evidence of the abuse and you believe that it did not
occur
c. her son informs you that he hasn’t seen his mother for over three months
d. the client tells you that she does not want the abuse to be reported

165*. You are working at a family service agency where you supervise six staff. One of
your supervisees is in part time private practice in the same community where you have a
part time private practice. Which of the following statements is true?
a. you have a dual relationship with this supervisee based on this information alone
b. you have a dual relationship with this supervisee only if the supervisee and you
are in the same group practice
c. you have a dual relationship with this supervisee if the supervisee and you receive
significant numbers of referrals from the same referral sources
d. you have a dual relationship with this supervisee only if the supervisee is a
marriage and family therapist, but not if the supervisee is licensed in another
mental health profession

166*. You are using Cognitive Therapy with a client who is an MFT Intern with
performance anxiety about taking a forthcoming state license exam. The client tells you
that people are either successes or failures, and that those who fail the exam are failures.
According to this theoretical orientation, your client is using...
a. arbitrary inference
b. absolutistic thinking
c. personalization
d. catastrophic thinking

167*. While describing her family, your 18 year old client explains that “everybody is in
everybody’s business,” and that she has always felt like her family members force each
other to live according to each one’s own expectations. She regrets the fact that she has
been unable to gain a sense of independence as a result of strict demands regarding how
she should live her life. According to Family Systems Theory based approaches, your
client’s family would be considered...
a. enmeshed
b. disengaged
c. resonant
d. mutually supportive

