Page 348 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

78*. You are working with a 27 year old African American client with a problem of
compulsive gambling and problems in family relationships. You are skilled in working
with family communications. Although you have worked with clients in the past for
whom compulsive gambling was a problem, it has not been a major focus of your work,
so you decide to obtain consultation from someone with special expertise in this area.
You should...
a. give your consultant an opportunity to review the client’s mu case record in order
  to have a sense of the context of the compulsive gambling problem
b. give your consultant an opportunity to meet the client
c. disclose as little information as possible about your client
d. not seek consultation from a colleague, only from professionals with whom you
do not have an ongoing working relationship

79*. You will be using a cognitive restructuring approach to help your client, Mr. G, a 25
year old man, eliminate or reduce his generalized anxiety. In using this approach you
should...
a. explore what the client believes about the origins of his anxiety
b. identify the client’s misinterpretations which lead to the anxiety
c. identify the client’s false beliefs which result from the anxiety
d. focus on behavior associated with the anxiety, not the clients beliefs

80*. When conducting family therapy sessions with your clients, a European American
family recently relocated to this state from North Dakota, you should...
a. emphasize immediate here and now interaction during sessions
b. focus on the clients’ descriptive reports of their interactions at home, in their
natural environment, between sessions
c. focus on the clients’ hopes for the future of their family relationships
d. emphasize an understanding of the motivations which cause dysfunctional family
communication

81*. Your new client has sought your help for treatment of a bipolar disorder. The client
is currently in a hypomanic state. During your initial assessment it also becomes clear
that your client feels a pervasive sense of emptiness or boredom and enters into intense
relationships with others in which the other person is either glorified or devalued. Before
determining whether or not your client has a personality disorder you need to...
a. gather information about the client’s behavior before the episode
b. determine whether or not the client’s borderline symptoms are features of the
hypomanic episode
c. determine whether or not your client has also been impulsive and has engaged in
self-destructive behavior
d. use a mental status exam to determine whether or not the client is malingering

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

