Page 330 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

11*. An 11 year old client with conduct disorder has been physically abused and lacks a
sense of empathy for others whom he has abused. He also lacks a sense of safety and
security and is socially isolated. In order to help the child develop a greater sense of
empathy for others you should...
a. help the client become conscious of, and verbalize, what it was like to be
victimized himself
b. encourage the client to apologize to the individuals he has abused
c. teach communication skills through demonstration and role play practice in
sessions
d. model and encourage appropriate expressions of anger

12*. In developing a diagnostic formulation for a 27 year old client who appears to be in
the prodromal stage of Schizophrenia, the mental status exam is useful in determining...
a. the cause of the individual's symptoms
b. the factors which trigger the onset of symptoms
c. the nature of the individual's mental state at a point in time
d. the individual's course of deterioration from the time of initial onset of symptoms

13*. A 25 year old depressed client has been abusing alcohol, marijuana_, and
hallucinogens. He has made several recent suicide gestures but his current suicide risk is
low to moderate. He claims that he only becomes depressed when he is intoxicated or
shortly thereafter, and that he is never depressed when he has been abstinent for several
days. Your treatment plan should focus on...
a. the depression since the depression is causing the suicide risk
b. the substance abuse since the client says he is only depressed when he uses drugs
c. whichever of these two conditions is determined to be causing the other
d. whichever of these two conditions the client is most ready to work on with you

14*. Your client is a person of about your age who appears to feel somewhat attracted to
you. The client responds to your attitude of warmth and acceptance as if it were an
attempt at seduction. You should...
a. explore the client's history of sexual abuse or harassment because it is a likely
cause of this kind of distortion
b. comment on how the therapy relationship is an intimate relationship and
distinguish it from other intimate relationships
c. explain that appropriate professional distance between a therapist and client
should not involve sexual feelings
d. prepare for termination and refer the client to another service provider who can
meet the client's needs

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

