MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 333

 

23*. Mrs. Swenson is a 62 year old woman who was referred to you, a therapist on staff
at the hospital, by her husband's physician. Mr. Swenson has experienced a massive
stroke. The doctor wanted you to provide supportive counseling to Mrs. Swenson who
has become extremely anxious and guarded since her husband's medical crisis. The
problem is that, even before meeting you, Mrs. Swenson calls and leaves a message
saying that "everything is just fine" and that she doesn't need your help. You should...
a. consult with the doctor and ask to be present the next time the doctor meets with
Mrs. Swenson so that you might have an opportunity to introduce yourself to her
b. arrange to be at Mr. Swenson's bedside during visiting hours so that you might
have an opportunity to meet Mrs. Swenson and introduce yourself to her
c. accept Mrs. Swenson's right to reject your services and don't pursue this unless
she contacts you again 
d. ask the doctor to refer Mrs. Swenson to psychiatry since her level of denial is so
severe

24*. In assessing your adolescent client's developing sense of identity, you should
determine...
a. how well the client recognizes his common personhood with people of other
cultures and generations
b. whether or not the client is able to derive a sense of self-esteem by caring for
others within the extended family or larger community
c. how well the client is adapting to social demands to begin making adult role
choices
d. whether or not the client has a sense of time perspective, a sense that there will be
a future and that he will be there in the future

25*. You are providing psychotherapy to a 34 year old anxious African American
woman whose goal is to reduce her social phobia anxiety so that she can perform
effectively once again on the job. The most appropriate treatment plan objective is...
a. help the client obtain anti-anxiety medications by a specified date
b. improve ego functioning by a specified. date
c. make eye-contact and say hello to at least five people at a social gathering by a
specified date
d. improve self-esteem as reported by client by a specified date

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

