MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 359

124*. When assessing your 77 year old client’s developmental state of ego integrity
versus despair, you should gather information about...
a. the extent to which the client feels close to friends and family
b. the extent to which the client has a sense of unified wholeness in his or her life
c. the strength or weakness of the client’s coping skills
d. the extent to which the client enjoys the pursuit of goals

125*. Your client is three months overdue in making payment for the services she is
receiving from you. She requests to see her records. You...
a. may deny access until her payments are up to date
b. may deny access due to her unpaid balance, but only if you also terminate services
due to her unpaid balance
c. may not withhold access to her record solely because payment is overdue
d. may deny access due to her unpaid balance, but only if you determine that denying
access would not cause a clinical risk for the client

126*. You are leading a socialization group at a community mental health agency which
maintains a "petty cash" fund to provide clients with small amounts of money for
transportation, purchases of used clothing, and other similar expenses. Much of the funds
are donated by staff of the agency. Your client needs $2.00 for bus fare to get to his
medical appointment immediately following your session, but the clerk who administers
the fund has just left for lunch. You would like to provide the client with the $2.00. You
should...
a. refrain from providing the money
b. encourage your client to provide a brief volunteer service to the agency so that he
will not feel dependent or guilty
c. refer the client to obtain funds from another staff member at the agency to avoid a
dual relationship
d. provide the money to the client as a contribution from the "petty cash" fund, but
do not inform the client that you are the donor

127*. You are interviewing a 27 year old male client with an antisocial personality
disorder who tends to be overly suspicious of people in general. He has been abusing
drugs for over 10 years. When he becomes belligerent and makes implied threats during
the session you should...
a. use gentle touch such as a light pat on the shoulder to help calm him down
b. express confidence, security and authority
c. speak slowly, softly and clearly
d. interpret the meaning of his behavior and the function it serves
 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

