MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS I Page 335

 

29*. Ms. J is having second thoughts about the toddler placed with her for adoption. He
is not at all interactive with her, shows no warmth, and appears to be internally
preoccupied. She fears that he might be autistic, but your assessment indicates that his
diagnosis is reactive attachment disorder. The adoption is not yet complete and Ms. J is
considering terminating the process and returning the child to a foster care placement.
You should help Ms. J
a. make a commitment to keep the child since he will probably overcome his
symptoms in time
b. follow through with her desire to terminate the adoptive proceedings since her
ambivalence will likely interfere with bonding
c. improve her parenting skills so that the child will be more affectionate and
responsive to her
d. make a decision about proceeding or not proceeding with the adoptive placement

30* . You are providing field instruction in marriage and family therapy to a graduate
student. You met the student in a social setting one year ago and the two of you indicated
your attraction to one another at the time, but no further social contact developed.
a. you should redirect the student to another field instructor because this relationship
would be a dual relationship in view of your prior relationship
b. because the student is an adult and is not a therapy client, the student is
responsible for setting clear and appropriate boundaries in this field instruction
relationship
c. because the student is an adult and is not a therapy client, you and the student
have a mutual responsibility to set clear and appropriate boundaries in this field
instruction relationship
d. even though the student is an adult and is not a therapy client, it is your
responsibility to set clear and appropriate boundaries in this field instruction
relationship

31*. Your client is a 50 year old man with unresolved grief over the loss of a close loved
one. He feels that he is “in crisis” and is confused about next steps to take in adjusting to
the loss. In the early stages of therapy you should help the client to focus on...
a. small, readily reachable goals that are perceived by the client as involving “hard work”
b. concrete and specific goals that are perceived by the client as “easy”
c. eliminating the negative rather than achieving the positive
d. his here and now experience rather than goals envisioned for some future time

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

