Page 350 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

86*. Under California law, the practice of marriage and family therapy is defined as a
service in which interpersonal relationships are examined for the purpose of achieving
more adequate, satisfying, and productive marriage and family adjustments, and what
else?
a. providing explanations and interpretations of the psychosexual aspects of
relationships
b. improving physical health
c. interpreting the part that unconscious motivation plays in influencing behavior
d. interpreting the importance of culture

87*. How can you best make your biopsychosocial assessment process a therapeutic
experience for your depressed and anxious client?
a. use empathic listening and receive information with an“ accepting stance
b. identify a variety of possible options for problem resolution and empower the
client to choose among them
c. suggest a variety of objectives which are more specific than, but related to, the
goal 
d. empower your client to formulate her own diagnosis

88*. You are formulating a treatment plan with your 36 year old depressed client whose
mood disorder is exacerbated by the fact that she is losing her apartment and is very
disturbed about her ability to relocate. Your treatment plan should...
a. accurately describe your treatment orientation
b. be stated in the client’s own words
c. focus on resolving the threat to the client’s living situation rather than the
depression
d. choose a course of action designed to achieve objectives over an anticipated
duration of time

89*. Your client has been seeing you for psychotherapy treatment of severe anxiety for
the past three months. The client tends to be guarded and suspicious of people in general.
He now tells you that he would like you to apply a gentle massage to his neck using
techniques similar to those he experienced at a recent weekend Relaxation Retreat, but he
says that he’s not sure if marriage and family therapists are allowed to use such
techniques. You should...
a. explain that simple massage is within a marriage and family therapist’s scope of
practice and offer to use the technique
b. explain that massage requires special certification which you do not posses
c. explain that massage is not consistent with the kind of relationship you need to
have in order to be effective as a psychotherapist
d. explore why the client is attempting to seduce you as a way of distracting attention
from the more threatening issue of anxiety

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

.4-...-....... ..,_ ,.

