Page 344 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

62*. In order to justify a maintenance oriented treatment plan for your client with
Paranoid Schizophrenia, which of the following kinds of information should be
documented?
a. a description of the frequency and triggers of the client’s repeated
decompensations
b. a description of the client’s strengths and available resources
c. a description of treatment interventions that have been tried in the past
d. a description of how high levels of expressed emotion in the family trigger
decompensations

63*. You are providing psychotherapy services to a 13 year old girl with an attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder, and you have documented the fact that the ADHD
symptoms have caused impaired concentration and task performance at school. The
client’s insurance coverage will only pay for interventions which focus on reducing social
functioning impairments which result from symptoms of the client’s diagnosis. Which of
the following will you need to document in order to justify the client’s access to insurance
coverage when you and the client are working on the objective of improving her self-
esteem?
a. describe how difficulty taking criticism causes the client’s ADHD
b. describe how low self-esteem results from the client’s ADHD
c. describe how low self-esteem results from the client’s impaired social functioning
d. describe how low self-esteem exacerbates the client’s impaired social functioning

64*. In using a high fidelity, robust implementation of the Assertive Community
Treatment approach with your client, a 45 year old man with Schizophrenia, you will
need to...
a. assertively intervene with people who are encouraging the client to become active
in the community since such involvement would be too stressful for a person with
schizophrenia
b. have a relatively small number of clients on your caseload
c. be part of a multidisciplinary team with well differentiated, specialized roles
d. provide services over a relatively short period of time with a specific termination
target date

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

