Page 366 , MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

152*. You ask a question in English to Mrs. Moreno, a Spanish speaking client who is
applying for service from your community mental health service system. An interpreter is
participating in the interview. During the session you should...
a. face the interpreter while listening to his interpretations of your client’s words,
then face your client when you respond to the interpretation
b. pay attention to the interpreter’s nonverbal communication to see if he or she
might be misrepresenting the client’s words
c. ask the interpreter what he or she thinks about the client’s truthfulness
d. pay attention to your client during the interpretations, looking for body language
and other nonverbal cues

153*. Your client expects to exert control over others in a way that ‘well-developed
individuals expect to exert control over their own mind and body. If you were using the
relevant Psychodynamic Theory to understand this client’s personality pattern, you would
focus on understanding the client’s experience of...
a. cognitive dissonance
b. selfobjects
c. narcissism
d. idioms of distress

154*. The beliefs and attitudes that your client has learned through participation in a
recently formed religious cult are not attributable to ethnic culture because, unlike the
cult, ethnic culture usually involves...
a. commonly held values
b. commonly held beliefs and rituals
c. political organization
d. a common ancestry or history

155*. You are working with the Jones family. What do you need to know about this
family in order to assess its patterns of assimilation and accommodation to the external 
social environment?
a. whether or not are the family’s patterns of interaction are affected by influence
from the community
b. the family’s effectiveness in achieving its goals
c. to what extent are family members allowed to participate in community groups
and activities
d. whether or not the family is a subsystem of an extended family system

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

