MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 343

59*. You are supervising an MFT Intern, Jane Todd. She has specialized in learning
hypnotherapy for anxiety reduction. You are also providing clinical consultation on a
regular basis to Joe Barnes for a reasonable fee. From time to time Mr. Barnes brings to
your attention a case of a client who could benefit from hypnotherapy as a supplement to
the therapy Mr. Barnes is providing, but neither he nor you are aware of another
hypnotherapy resource in your community. You...
a. may recommend your supervisee, Ms. Todd, as a referral resource for
hypnotherapy and offer to reduce your consultation fee whenever a referral is
made to her
b. should avoid discussion of the benefit of hypnotherapy because promoting
hypnotherapy in this case would be a conflict of interest
c. should explore the potential benefit of hypnotherapy for these clients, and explore
alternative interventions if Mr. Banes is unable to find a suitable hypnotherapist
on his own, but do not recommend Ms. Todd
d. may recommend your supervisee, Ms. Todd, as a referral resource for
hypnotherapy

60*. A former client now living in another part of the state calls you and says that she
would like to briefly resume therapy over the phone in order to work through a recent
relationship problem. She says that the problem is relevant to her prior psychotherapy
a with you. If you decide to offer the requested help you should...
a. clarify that sessions over the phone does not constitute psychotherapy and are not
subject to the usual standards governing psychotherapy practice
b. inform the client of the potential risks, consequences and benefits of
psychotherapy by phone
c. conduct at least one face to face session for every three telephone sessions
d. inform the client that sessions over the phone do not constitute “psychotherapy”
but will be referred to as “counseling”

61*. Your client, a 24 year old woman with anorexia nervosa, has been hospitalized
because her weight became medically precarious. The most important thing to happen
while hospitalized is for your client to...
a. be medicated for depression to reduce suicide risk
b. be helped to reframe her view of herself as "an eating freak"
c. be fed at regular intervals while attended by family members
d. be fed at regular intervals while attended by nursing staff

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

