MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 355

 

107*. Among the clients on your caseload, 35% of those with a history of poor nutrition
have severe depressive disorders, whereas only 10% of those with a history of good
nutrition have severe depressive disorders. A colleague at a clinic across town informs
you that, on her caseload, 45% of those with severe depressive disorders have a history of
poor nutrition, whereas only 20% of those without severe depression have a history of
poor nutrition. This suggests that poor nutrition is...
a. a contributory condition for depression
b. a necessary cause of depression
c. a sufficient cause of depression
d. an indicator of depression

108*. If you were using a Psychodynamic Psychotherapy approach to your client,
emphasizing Self Psychology, your diagnostic formulation would likely describe his
narcissistic personality disorder as...
a. secondary disturbance of self
b. a syndrome in which symptoms are internalized rather than acted out
c. an attempt to establish empathy
d. an overstimulated self

109*. You are working with a 32 year old man with a ten year history of Marijuana
Dependence. He is now in his fifth month of abstinence and is receiving help from you to
restore a functional social support network and work on relapse prevention. You
should...
a. recommend that he consider taking randomly scheduled toxicity screens
b. recommend that he contact his former “using buddies” to encourage their
abstinence, thereby reinforcing his own commitment to recovery
c. focus on his addiction rather than be distracted by his other psychosocial issues
d. engage family members to actively encourage his continued abstinence

110*. The Board of Behavioral Sciences can suspend or revoke the license of any MFT
who fails to...
a. disclose the fee to the client prior to the commencement of treatment 
b. offer the client an affordable fee
c. collect fees on a regular basis
d. determine a client’s ability to pay

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

