Page 332 A MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

19*. You have been assigned to lead a rehabilitation oriented group of people with
serious mental illness. It is a group that has been meeting for the past nine months with
another therapist who has recently retired. You will be assessing the group's leadership
hierarchy to anticipate how alignments will be forming with you as the new therapist. In
order to determine the group's hierarchy you should find out...
a. which individual has the greatest influence on group decisions
b. which individuals do the members turn to for expertise, activity leadership, and
affective leadership
c. which individuals do the members feel most comfortable talking to
d. who is the best liked group member

20*. After developing a problem formulation, you and your client should select an
intervention method that has demonstrated efficacy for treatment of that particular
problem. This means that you will be using an intervention method that...
a. will be effective in this case
b. will probably be effective in this case
c. has been shown to be effective when used by others
d. has been shown to achieve a high level of client satisfaction

21*. An 11 year old child is referred to you by the recreation director at a local
community center. She was concerned about the child's sadness and inability to find
pleasure in activities that most other children enjoy. The child says that she would like to
come and see you after school from time to time but doesn't want anybody to know about
it. In order to provide treatment to this child you...

a. do not need to obtain parental consent if you believe that seeking such consent
would be detrimental to the child's best interests
b. do not need to obtain parental consent if you have reason to believe that the child's
problem is due to child abuse
c. must first obtain permission from both parents
d. must first obtain permission from one parent

22*. You are providing therapy services to the family of a five year old autistic child.
Although a thorough diagnostic assessment has not yet been completed, the child's autism
diagnosis has now been confirmed. Further diagnostic assessment should be done to
determine the presence of...
a. childhood disintegrative disorder
b. Asperger's disorder
c. mental retardation
d. stereotypic movement disorder

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

