Page 386 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

Therapy. A is incorrect because the client’s thoughts cannot be evaluated until they have
first been identified by the client. B is also incorrect because the client’s thoughts cannot
be changed until they have first been identified by the client. C is incorrect for the same
reason, and because the client should be helped to generate her own rational alternatives
to her negative thoughts rather than be taught to learn someone else’s more rational
alternatives.

5*. The correct answer is C. This individual is experiencing phobic anxiety because the
anxiety episodes are precipitated by a specific stimulus situation, that is, being called
upon to speak by the teacher. A is incorrect because panic disorder involves panic attacks
which are uncued, that is, not precipitated by a specific stimulus situation. The
individual’s panic does meet the criteria for a panic attack - that is, a discrete period of
intense anxiety which peaks within 10 minutes - but it is not the kind of uncued panic
attack found in panic disorders. B is incorrect because social phobia involves generalized
or pervasive social anxiety, whereas this individual’s anxiety is aroused by a specific
social situation, being called upon to speak by the teacher. The individual is not anxious
when with family or when with friends on the playground. D is incorrect because
autonomic hyperactivity refers to the physiological symptoms of anxiety such as dry
mouth, trembling, or rapid heartbeat. This individual’s anxiety may be primarily
psychological in nature, physical in nature, or a combination of the two. The question
does not give any specific information that points to autonomic hyperactivity, that is, the
physical manifestations of anxiety.

6*. The correct answer is C. If the client refuses to honor his commitment to his partner
you would be in the untenable position of either revealing a potentially devastating
announcement to his partner, or colluding with him in secret. Although you may not
abandon the clients, you can terminate couples therapy if you help the individuals find
alternative services to meet their current needs. A is incorrect because a “no secrets”
agreement in couples therapy is a mutual agreement between the partners, as well as an
agreement with the therapist. Although a therapist must accept a client’s right to
withdraw waivers of confidentiality which are given to a therapist, this principle does not
apply to one’s partner. B is incorrect because you do not have an obligation to inform
the partner of the affair, even though one could legitimately argue that you have a right to
inform the partner of the affair. D is incorrect because such agreements can be revoked.
For example, both partners could mutually agree that they want to revoke their agreement
to the initial “no secrets” policy. You could then help the clients find another therapist if
you are only willing to conduct couples counseling with clients who accept such a policy.

7*. The correct answer is B. This approach respects the client’s right to refuse a referral,
but is designed to motivate the client to choose to follow through and receive a needed
service. A is incorrect because there is no indication that the client has authorized you to
act on her behalf, or to reveal her identity to the referral agency. There is no indication
that she has chosen to act on the referral. C is incorrect because it is intrusive. Again,
there is no indication that the client has authorized you to act on her behalf, or to reveal

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

