MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 415

 

engage in the kind of focused work that would be involved in challenging, testing, and
reframing cognitions. Also, personality disorders are much more likely to be related to
deeper core beliefs rather than automatic thoughts.

105*. The correct answer is D. All of the answers are relevant to working with a client
in crisis. However, only D is directly relevant to the assessment process. A systematic,
orderly assessment will help a client clarify the nature of the crisis and the stressor that
precipitated the crisis, as well as partialize the various aspects of the crisis. This will lead
to a better “cognitive grasp” or sense of logical order to replace her previous sense of
confusion. A is incorrect because this is a therapeutic intervention technique which will
follow the assessment. Anticipation of future crises is not an aspect of assessment per se.
B is incorrect because focusing on restoration and enhancement of functioning is much
more relevant to treatment planning and intervention than it is to assessment. Restoration
and enhancement of functioning relate to how the client will change as a result of the
therapy, whereas the assessment focuses on the client’s status at the moment, and the
events that have led up to the present moment. C is incorrect because you need to begin
where the client is, not where her husband is. She may need help in how to deal with her
husband, and you probably will be helping her to do that.

106*. The correct answer is C. Showing shock or disgust will make the client feel
inhibited. This will suppress discovery of factual information as well as interfering with
the client’s need to ventilate in the presence of a supportive and accepting adult. A is
incorrect because you should move from general issues to more specific issues. For
example, begin with questions such as “How are things between you and your mom?
...your dad? ...your uncle? What kinds of things do you do together?” Eventually move
to specifics such as “Do you and your uncle snuggle? Where does he touch you?. ..” If
you were to begin with such specific issues the child would be more likely to become
inhibited. B is incorrect because a formal setting will also be inhibiting. Such an
interview should be in a setting which the child experiences as natural, casual and private.
D is incorrect because this can frighten the child and cause inhibition. Let the child know
that the abuser, and not the child, is responsible for what has happened, but also that the
abuser needs help and will now have a chance to get help.

107*. The correct answer is A. A contributory cause, or contributory condition, is one
that increases the likelihood that something will occur, but it doesn’t make it certain. B is
incorrect because if poor nutrition was a necessary cause of depression, then all depressed
people would have a history of poor nutrition. C is incorrect because if poor nutrition
was a sufficient cause of depression, everyone with a history of poor nutrition would be
depressed. Poor nutrition is not a sufficient cause because other factors must also be
present to lead a person with poor nutrition to become depressed. D is incorrect because
an indicator is something that makes something else observable. For example, reduced
sleep, increased food intake due to increased appetite, and slow, lethargic movements are
indicators of depression.

 

