interview you might want to check with the interpreter, if he or she is bicultural as well as
bilingual, in order to confirm your impressions of the client’s nonverbal expressions. A is
incorrect because, in general, you should maintain contact with the client, and not shift
your attention to the interpreter. This emphasizes that the most significant relationship in
this interview is between yourself and the client. B is incorrect because you probably
won’t be able to make this judgment by paying attention to the interpreter’s nonverbal
communication. You should select a reliable interpreter who is specially trained and
certified so that you will not need to be too concerned about the interpreter’s reliability.
C is incorrect because you shouldn’t be talking about the client in front of him or her.
Keep in mind that your client may understand comments that you make to the interpreter,
even if she has limited English skills. If you have doubts about the client’s truthfulness,
you should explore that with the client just as you would with an English speaking client.

153*. The correct answer is B. In Self Psychology, a Psychodynamic Theory, the
selfobject is the way in which a person might experience another person as part of one’s
self, an extension of oneself, so to speak. A is incorrect because cognitive dissonance
refers to the tendency of individuals to seek consistency among their beliefs and opinions.
When there is an inconsistency between attitudes and behaviors (dissonance), something
must change to eliminate the dissonance. In the case of a discrepancy between attitudes
and behavior, it is most likely that the attitude will change to accommodate the behavior.
These issues are not specifically related to a person’s attempt to exert control over others.
C is incorrect because narcissism is only one form of difficulty people have when they try
to exert control over others as if the other person were an extension of oneself. D is
incorrect because idioms of distress are the ways in which culture influences how people
express or communicate their feelings of distress.

154*. The correct answer is D. Most groups and communities have a culture, but ethnic
culture is characterized by a common ancestry or history, and a common language. A and
B are incorrect because all cultures, even those developed within cults, involve
commonly held values, beliefs and rituals. C is incorrect because any group, including
cults, might use the shared identity of its members as a frame of reference for political
organizing. Also, an ethnic community with a common ancestry, history and language
would still be an ethnic community, even if it didn’t engage in political organization.

155*. The correct answer is A. Assimilation and accommodation refer to a social
system’s way of relating to the social environment. Specifically, these qualities refer to
the extent to which the social system influences its environment to change (assimilation
from the environment’s perspective), and to what extent the environment influences the
social system to change (accommodation from the environment’s perspective). B is
incorrect because effectiveness in achieving goals is influenced by the family’s
interactions with the environment, but a family can be effective whether it’s
environmental relations are characterized by assimilation or accommodation. C is
incorrect because this information will tell you the extent to which a family system is an
open or closed system. Open family systems might be characterized by either
