Page 430 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

independent evidence of the beatings other than the report of an elder with a mental
disorder, and because you believe that the abuse did not occur. The language used in the
law actually says “the mandated reporter reasonably believes that the abuse did not
occur.” A is incorrect because the law protects elders, dependent adults and children
from being physically abused, even when they provoke the abuse. C is incorrect because
her son might be lying to you. D is incorrect because the law requires reports of abuse to
elders, dependent adults, and children under certain circumstances. These reports are not
subject to approval by the client. 

165*. The correct answer is C. Marriage and family therapists may not engage in
conflicts of interest that might impair professional performance. If you and the
supervisee receive significant numbers of referrals from the same referral sources there is
likely to be some degree of competition. As a supervisor you would have the authority to
make decisions that could impair the supervise“e’s competitiveness for referrals. For
example, you could influence the supervisee’s schedule at the family service agency so
that the supervisee’s private practice would not be available at convenient times. Or you
could influence the supervisee’s reputation in the community. A is incorrect because
there would not necessarily be a conflict of interest if your private practices were
unrelated. For example, if you specialized in treatment of ADHD and your supervisee
specialized in the treatment of depressive disorders, and if you each had separate referral
sources for your private practice, there would be no significant competition between you.
B is incorrect because the features of dual relationship described in answer C would apply
whether or not the two of you were in the same group practice. D is incorrect because the
dual relationship would exist with any professional who was in competition with you for
private practice referrals from the same referral sources.

166*. The correct answer is B. Absolutistic thinking is an “all or none” way of thinking
which involves rigid dichotomies such as the notion that people are either successes or
failures. A healthier approach would be to recognize that people are good at some things
and not as good at others, and that even people who are good at something might not be
good at all aspects of that thing all of the time. A is incorrect because arbitrary inference
involves coming to the conclusion that you want to come to in the absence of supporting
information or in spite of contradictory evidence. For example, if you believe you will
never pass an exam that a great majority of people pass by the second attempt, you ignore
the evidence of the high passing rate and tell yourself that the passing rate is low. C is
incorrect because personalization involves erroneously assuming responsibility for
external problems where little or no responsibility exists. For example “My partner beats
me because I don’t have his dinner on the table by the time he gets home from work.” D
is incorrect because catastrophic thinking involves predicting worst case scenarios while
ignoring more likely outcomes. For example, “If I don’t pass this exam on my first
attempt everyone will laugh at me and I’ll never be able to get a job in this field.”

167*. The correct answer is A. “Enmeshed” is a term used by Minuchin in his Structural
Family Therapy to refer to families whose members have diffuse boundaries and

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

