Page 426 A MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

about the age of seven most children have developed the capacity for “perspectivism.”
Now able to see things from another’s perspective, the child is capable of empathic
understanding. A, B and C are incorrect because these developmental milestones are all
characteristic of a younger age. These abilities are present in a nine year old, but they are
not an indication that a nine year old’s cognitive development is age appropriate because
the child might not have progressed beyond these achievements. The ability to relate
categories to sub-categories (A) is characteristic of the intuitive stage of the pre-
operational period, or during the early elementary school years. Allowing immediate
sensory experience to override logic (B) is known as “perceptual dominance” and is
characteristic of the pre-school and early elementary school years. The ability to know
that objects exist apart from oneself (C) is known as “the object concept” and is typically
achieved during infancy.

150*. The correct answer is C. Homeostasis refers to a social system’s way of
maintaining behaviors within an acceptable range in order to maintain its way of doing
things. It is distinguished from equilibrium which is a relatively fixed and rigid way of
behaving. A is incorrect because there is nothing in the question that is specific to the a
issue of roles or role expectations. It is true that family role differentiation is maintained
when homeostasis is maintained, but that’s only because homeostasis tends to maintain
all aspects of a social system. C is a better answer because it is more directly related to
the question. B is incorrect because entropy refers to an unattended system’s tendency
toward disorder or disintegration. Entropy is not characteristic of social systems in which
authority and social control are used to maintain ordered patterns of behavior. D is
incorrect because assimilation and accommodation refer to how a social system relates to
its environment. Assimilation occurs when a system is able to change the demands of the
environment so that the environment supports the system as it is. Accommodation occurs
when a system changes to meet the demands of the environment. The family in this
question is accommodating to the environment when the parents refrain from beating the
children in public. Assimilation would be involved if the family was successfully doing
things to get the community to become more accepting of beatings.

151*. The correct answer is B. Social control refers to the way in which social systems
maintain their relationship and communication patterns. C and D are incorrect because
role expectations and norms, or rules, are the ways in which a system lets its members
know which relationship and communication patterns should be followed. A is incorrect
because smiles in response to comments and other behavior are one of the ways in which
a system rewards members for complying with role expectations and norms. B is not
relevant because efficiency in goal attainment is not the way in which social systems
maintain their relationship and communication patterns. It may be the result of social
control, but it is not social control per se.

152*. The correct answer is D. You should pay attention to your client’s body language
and nonverbal cues while the client is speaking as well as when the interpreter is
speaking. Many nonverbal cues have cross-cultural meaning and significance. After the

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009  

