AMFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 393

 

attachment disorder, including the needs of this child and prognosis for improvement, so
that she can make an informed decision. She needs to be allowed to make the decision
that is right for her. A is incorrect because the client needs to resolve her own
ambivalence and because you can't be sure about the extent to which the child will
overcome his symptoms in time. B is also incorrect because the client needs to be
allowed to make the decision that is right for her and because she may be able to resolve
her ambivalence with adequate information and support. C is incorrect because there is A
no indication that the adoptive mother's parenting skills are causing the problem or that
they need improvement.

30*. The correct answer is D. A simple expression of attraction should not preclude a
professional relationship if it led to no sexual relationship or other social contact.
Therefore, A is incorrect. B and C are incorrect because, as the person with formal
authority in this relationship, you are responsible for setting and maintaining appropriate
boundaries, and you will likely be the one held accountable if those boundaries are
violated.

31*. The correct answer is A. Small goals will be readily reachable. If they are also
viewed as “hard work” the client will feel a sense of accomplishment when the goal is
achieved. B is incorrect because, in general, you should not help a client to focus on
“easy” goals. Such goals might be viewed as meaningless and will not lead to a sense of
achievement or self-esteem. An exception to this principle might be made for a client
who is feeling severely hopeless and helpless, and who is therefore difficult to engage. C
is incorrect because the more positive outlook has come to be generally favored in clinical
practice. This is consistent with a strengths based perspective. A positive approach
might emphasize learning to “feel relaxed” rather than “reduce anxiety.” This positive
focus has long been recognized as the favored orientation in hypnotherapy, as well as in
marketing. D is incorrect because most efficacious treatment approaches focus on clear
and specific goals, and a strategy for getting &om here to there. This does not rule out
attention to here and now experience, but that should not be the focus. An exception
might be when the therapist and client are choosing to use Client Centered Therapy or
Existential Group Therapy to address a clinical issue that is specifically relevant to one of
those approaches.

32*. The correct answer is C. A simple, open ended question is referred to as “an
exploratory response” because it encourages a client to expand or elaborate on his or her
concerns. Except in specific circumstances, a skilled interviewer generally will not make
authoritative sounding statements or make interpretations which limit the client’ s self-
exploration. A is incorrect because it is an attempt to get the client to change her mind,
not to elaborate on expressing her concerns, as the question calls for. B is incorrect
because it ends the discussion, even though the interviewer says that the purpose of
ending the discussion is to discuss the issue more in a few days. There’s no way of
knowing whether or not the client will be focused on the same concerns in a few days. D
is incorrect because it focuses on one possible explanation for the client’s concerns, but it

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

