MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 407

 

should be taking a stance of “detached empathy” in which you make it clear that you will
not feel guilty or responsible for the client’s behavior or its consequences. D is incorrect
because the client isn’t ready to relate to treatment options since she has neither
acknowledged having a problem nor would she be able to describe the nature of the
problem.

78*. The correct answer is C. When speaking with a consultant about clients, you should
disclose the least amount of information necessary to achieve the consultation purpose. A
is incorrect because by reading the full case record the consultant would learn more about
your client than is necessary to achieve the consultation purpose. B is incorrect because
meeting the client would also reveal more information than is necessary. D is incorrect
because colleagues are a common source of consultation. If you present your colleague
with as little information as possible about the client in order to accomplish the
consultation purpose, there is no reason to exclude colleagues as consultants.

79*. The correct answer is B. You and the client need to identify the client’s
misinterpretations which lead to the anxiety so that they can then be tested and corrected.
A is incorrect because the client’s beliefs about the origins of his anxiety may not be the
beliefs that actually lead to the anxiety. C is incorrect because your goal is to eliminate or
reduce the anxiety, not to deal with its consequences. You need to focus on the causes,
triggers and exacerbating factors that lead to (precede) the anxiety. D is incorrect because
cognitive restructuring focuses on beliefs or cognitions. It is not strictly limited to
focusing on observable physical behavior as was true in the Behavior Modification
approach from which it was derived. Cognitive restructuring assumes that a client’s
reports of cognitions are a form of observable behavior.

80*. The correct answer is A. Family therapy, especially when it involves sessions with
the whole family group, emphasizes immediate here and now interaction during sessions.
The therapist observes communication patterns, describes and clarifies them, and teaches
alternative ways of communicating. In some forms of family therapy the therapist might
explore with the family the meaning of their communication patterns as they emerge
during sessions. B is incorrect because these descriptive reports are much less likely to be
accurate as compared to descriptions of interactions as they arise during a session.
Clearly, if family members vehemently and intractably disagree with one another during a
session as they tell about their excellent conflict resolution skills as a family at home,
there will be more validity in what the family is observed to do rather than what they say
they do. C is incorrect because clients should be allowed, or even encouraged to express
hopes for the future, but this is not a focus or emphasis throughout the family therapy
process. Attention to here and now interactions during sessions is just as relevant during
assessment as it is during treatment plan formulation, intervention and termination. D is
incorrect because most family therapy approaches focus on actual behavior rather than the
motivations or psychodynamics which cause the behaviors. Psychoanalytic family
therapy is an exception, but it is not typical of the various family therapy approaches.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

