Page 436  MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

from one’s self; a sense that one’s self is not real. In contrast, “derealization” refers to a
sense that things outside of one’s self are not real. A is incorrect because“dissociative
fugue” refers to an altered state of consciousness. People experiencing a dissociative
fugue will often establish a completely new identity after traveling to a new community.
B is incorrect because extinction refers to the “unlearning” of a behavior pattern due to
absence of reinforcement. D is incorrect even though “dissociative amnesia” and
depersonalization both involve a deficient sense of self. However, in contrast to
depersonalization which involves one questioning one’s own vitality, a person
experiencing dissociative amnesia will question his/her identity. Unlike a dissociative
fugue, a person experiencing dissociative amnesia will not establish a new identity.

186*. The correct answer is B. A heterogeneous group is one in which there are many
differences between members such as different ethnicities, diagnoses, level of intelligence
or psychological sophistication. Heterogeneous groups are prone to stereotyping and
scapegoating, value conflicts and communication gaps or misunderstandings. Therefore
answers A, C and D are incorrect. Partly because of these conflicts, heterogeneous
groups tend to be very stimulating. A lack of stimulation is much more likely to occur in
a homogeneous group.

187*. The correct answer is A. Role loss occurs when a person leaves a position and is
no longer faced with familiar role expectations. B is incorrect because intraposition role
conflict occurs when opposing role expectations are made of a person in a particular
situation. C is incorrect because inadequate socialization occurs when a person has not
been effectively taught the role expectations that others hold. D is incorrect because role
ambiguity refers to a lack of clarity about role expectations for a given position.

188*. The correct answer is B. Adaptation refers to how well a social system is able to
get along with its environment. A is incorrect because integration addresses how well
family members communicate with, or relate to, one another. C is incorrect because
leadership patterns within the family are a matter of group social control, not adaptation.
D is incorrect because the family’s effectiveness in achieving its goals is referred to as
goal orientation or goal attainment, not adaptation.

189*. The correct answer is B. Most medical insurance plans have established “medical
necessity” criteria to determine a beneficiary’s eligibility for benefits in a particular
treatment situation. These medical necessity criteria almost always address a DSM
diagnosis of mental disorder which should be validated with a symptom description and
evidence that the diagnosis is causing either significant impairment in functioning or
distress. A is incorrect because your psychotherapy client is entitled to privileged
communication whether or not the client has a diagnosis. C is incorrect because a client
can develop a cognitive grasp of the immediate crisis by focusing on the crisis, not
pervasive patterns of thought, feeling and functioning. D is incorrect because your
documentation of diagnosis, symptoms, distress and impairment are not directly related to

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

