Page 408 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

81*. The correct answer is A. In general, one should not diagnose a personality disorder
during an episode of a major mental illness without having information about the client's
behavior before the episode. Clients such as the one described in the question could have
personality traits, borderline personality traits in this case, which are exacerbated by the
episode of the major mental illness. Such an exacerbation would not constitute a
personality disorder because the features would not have been persistently present to a
sufficiently severe, inflexible, or dysfunctional degree. B is incorrect because, even if
you determined that these borderline symptoms are not features of the hypomanic
episode, they would still not constitute a personality disorder unless they have been
persistently present since childhood or adolescence. C is incorrect because, even though
impulsiveness and self-destructive behavior are features of a borderline personality
disorder, that would not be the diagnosis unless you were able to establish, by history,
that the features have been persistently present since childhood or adolescence. D is
incorrect because a mental status exam is not used to determine malingering.

82*. The correct answer is B. People with diabetes are at risk of developing depression,
irritability, and anxiety. A, C and D are incorrect because there is no particular
correlation between Diabetes and either cognitive disturbances, psychotic symptoms, or
impulse control problems, except as these might arise due to depression or anxiety.

83*. The correct answer is B. Under the “Unprofessional Conduct” provisions of the
MFT license law, an MFT’s license can be revoked or suspended for “Administering to
himself or herself any controlled substance or using of any of the dangerous drugs
specified in Section 4022, or of any alcoholic beverage to the extent, or in a manner, as to
be dangerous or injurious to the person applying for a registration or license or holding a
registration or license...” \n 
A is incorrect because a license cannot be suspended or revoked for commonly acceptable
and positive physical contact such as a handshake or a pat on the back under certain .
circumstances. A license can be suspended or revoked for “intentionally or recklessly
causing physical or emotional harm to any client” or for “engaging in sexual relations
with a client...” C is incorrect because a license can only be suspended or revoked if the
crime is “substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a licensee or
registrant...” D is incorrect because there is no legal requirement that your child abuse
reports must lead to findings of actual child abuse, only that your reports be based on your
reasonable suspicion that abuse has occurred.

84*. The correct answer is A. Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy is based on the assumption
that individuals have a limited amount of psychic energy. When that energy is bound up,
or fixated, on issues from the past, there is that much less energy to apply to problem
solving in the client’s here and now reality. Resolving fixations frees up that energy to
deal with today’s opportunities and challenges. B is incorrect because, even though it is
true that Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy seeks to make the unconscious conscious, the
purpose of this is to make it possible to work through conflicts and fixations, thereby

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES  2009

