incorrect because this approach will encourage the client to focus on her symptoms. To
the extent that she might be seeking attention or dependency, this approach might only
shift some of her efforts away from the doctor and onto yourself. C is incorrect because
your client is probably troubled by a somatoform disorder, not a medical problem. This
approach will likely reinforce her misperception that her somatoform symptoms are
physically caused.

146*. The correct answer is A. There may be room for legitimate difference of opinion
in a situation like this, but this kind of exam question is likely to be testing a candidate’s
familiarity with the ethical principle that requires a therapist to terminate services when
they no longer serve the client’s needs. If a therapist has worked with a client for over
two years using several treatment strategies in order to improve self-esteem and reduce
excessive guilt, and if there has been no progress, then the particular therapist is not really
able to serve the client’s needs. Perhaps another therapist with a different personality,
style, and training in other therapy methods might be able to serve the client’s needs. B is
incorrect because it shouldn’t be assumed that the client is not a good candidate for
psychotherapy. Perhaps the client is a good candidate for a psychotherapy method that
the first therapist has not used. C and D are incorrect because psychotherapy research
shows that it should be possible to achieve observable results in far less than two years.
If this client has not been able to achieve results with this therapist after two years, there
is little likelihood that providing more therapy in this context will become effective.

147*. The correct answer is C. The Tarasoff decision states that “When a therapist
determines, or pursuant to the standards of his profession should determine, that his
patient presents a serious danger of violence to another, he incurs an obligation to use
reasonable care to protect the intended victim against such danger.” A is incorrect
because a duty to warn only applies to threats that involve serious danger of violence. B
is incorrect for the same reason. Not all crimes involve a serious danger of violence. D is
incorrect because most people who are gravely disabled do not present a serious danger of
violence to another person.

148*. The correct answer is B. A, C and D are commonly considered to be important,
relevant information for a client who is giving informed consent to release information,
consistent with the AAMFT Code of Ethics standard calling for marriage and family
therapists to “respect the rights of clients to make decisions and help them to understand
the consequences of these decisions.” C is incorrect because the relationship between the
disclosing party and the receiving party is not relevant to the client’s decision, or certainly
not as relevant as the other three issues listed among these answers. The important thing
is to designate the receiving party and the purpose of the disclosure (so that only relevant
information will be revealed), regardless of the receiving party’s relationship to the
disclosing party.

149*. The correct answer is D. Prior to the age of seven a child’s cognitive development
is characterized by “egocentrism,” the inability to take another person’s perspective. By

