Page 422 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

134*. The correct answer is C. Schizotypal personality traits are characterized by
cognitive and perceptual distortions which might include a disturbed sense of reality,
dissociative experiences, ideas of reference or influence, and magical thinking. Disturbed
sense of reality is to be distinguished from impaired reality testing in which the person
loses the ability to accurately describe external events. A is incorrect because antisocial
personality traits involve exploitive and hurtful relationships with other people. It is more
about behavior than it is about experience of reality. B is incorrect because people with
delusional disorder have a psychotic disorder in which reality testing is impaired, but the
sense of reality is not usually disturbed. In other words, the person’s inaccurate beliefs
about external events are experienced as real, not as strange. D is incorrect because
reactive attachment disorder involves a disturbance in a young child’s ability to bond, or
form attachments, with others due to pathogenic caretaking. It is true that pathogenic
caretaking, especially if it involves traumatic assaults, can lead to a sense of dissociation
which can take the form of a disturbed sense of reality, but this feature is more
characteristic of schizotypal personality traits. Therefore, C is a better answer.

135*. The correct answer is A. This developmental milestone involves developing a
sense of autonomy, and to be able to exercise autonomy without a dysfunctional sense of
shame and self-doubt. The child needs to be able to show rejection, ambivalence and
negativity when limits are set as a way of experiencing the boundaries of one’s
separateness from those who set limits. B is incorrect because exploring with curiosity,
asking questions, and examining the environment are key features of a child’s
development between the ages of 3 and 6 years. These activities are a way of exercising
initiative. C is incorrect because being able to want things that aren’t immediately
available and experiencing hope are related to achieving a time perspective and object
constancy. These are developmental milestones of the first year of life. D is incorrect
because it is in adolescence that a young person is expected to be able to try on temporary
identities and use a peer group as a frame of reference for identity.

136*. The correct answer is B. It is inappropriate to contact the minor's parents at this
time if you believe his statement that he will not return for services and because of the
potential seriousness of his threat to "do something awful." However, things might
change to the point where the parents come to learn about the marijuana use on their own,
and the minor may eventually be willing to continue treatment even though his parents
are contacted. At that point the minor consent law (Family Code Sec. 6929) requires that
your treatment include the involvement of the minor's parent or guardian because it is no
longer inappropriate. A is incorrect because the law requires you to involve the parents of
a minor unless it is inappropriate to do so. Once it becomes appropriate, it is no longer
inappropriate, therefore, you shouldn't assume that you must refrain from contacting the
parents "at any time." C is incorrect because the law allows you to provide treatment
related to an alcohol or drug related problem to a minor age 12 or older without either
parent's consent if it would be inappropriate to involve the parents in the treatment. D is
incorrect because Family Code Sec. 6929 requires only that the treatment be related to a
drug or alcohol related problem. There is another section of the law (Family Code Sec.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

