Page 404 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

should help the client clarify goals and objectives because the actions that he chooses will
depend on the goals and objectives he wants to achieve with those actions. B is incorrect
because the client who is already planning to take action is ready to think about his own
abuse patterns. Focusing on substance use in a general way is more appropriate for the
client who is in a “pre-contemplation” or “contemplation” phase of change when denial
and avoidance are more prevalent and the client is not yet ready to benefit from very
much personalized confrontation. C is incorrect because the client is not yet ready to
focus on relapse risk since he hasn’t yet begun to work on abstinence in the first place.
He will need to learn more about relapse risk once he is actively engaged in the action
phase of recovery oriented treatment. D is incorrect because you don’t really know why
this particular client has been using cocaine.

66*. The correct answer is C. Members of cohesive groups are able to influence one
another. They are more willing to listen to others and are more accepting of other
members and their opinions. Members of cohesive groups are more often willing to
change their minds to take on the View of others. That’s why B is incorrect and C is
correct. A is incorrect because in an enmeshed group members are overly sensitive to one
another’s actions. D is incorrect because a closed system is one with limited influence
from the external environment. In this group the lack of influence is an internal matter.

67*. The correct answer is B. Hypochondriasis is a preoccupation with the fear of
having, or the idea that one has, a serious disease based on the person’s misinterpretation
of bodily symptoms or bodily functions. A is incorrect because histrionic refers to a
pattern of excessive emotionality and attention seeking. C is incorrect because
conversion symptoms are unexplained deficits affecting voluntary motor or sensory
function that suggest a neurological or other general medical condition. Your client’s
symptoms are not specific to voluntary motor or sensory functions. D is incorrect
because it is not culturally normative in Chile to be preoccupied with the fear of having a
serious disease based on one’s misinterpretation of common aches and pains.

68*. The correct answer is A. The question describes vegetative symptoms of
depression. These occur in dysthymia, major depressive disorder, and in the major
depressive episode of a bipolar disorder. B, C and D are incorrect because they each rule
out appropriate diagnostic possibilities for this client.

69*. The correct answer is D. This client is experiencing a delirium. Delirium is a
disturbance of consciousness with reduced ability to focus, sustain, or shift attention,
which develops over a short period of time and tends to fluctuate during the course of the
day. Delirium is due to either a medical condition or use of certain substances. A is
incorrect because adult onset attention deficit disorder (which is not a DSM diagnosis but
is a syndrome often recognized in clinical assessments) does not develop over a short
period of time. B is incorrect because amphetamines, like most substances of abuse, can
cause delirium during intoxication, but not during withdrawal. Alcohol and sedatives,
hypnotics or anxiolytics can cause delirium during withdrawal. C is incorrect because
panic attack does develop over a short period of time and does interfere with attention,

 
