Page 394 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

is an explanation identified by the interviewer, not by the client. Even if the interviewer’s
hunch is correct, such a direct statement could lead the client to become guarded and to
withdraw from the issue rather than explore it more fully from her own perspective.

33*. The correct answer is C. Fear is anxiety experienced in response to a threat that is
perceived as real. A and B are incorrect because this client’s response is not a phobia.
Phobias involved marked and persistent fear that is excessive or unreasonable and, if the
anxious individual is an adult, recognized by the individual as being excessive or
unreasonable. This man considers his fear to be reasonable. A is also incorrect because
acrophobia is a fear of heights. People who are afraid of flying aren’t necessarily afraid
of being in high places. They might be afraid of being in a confined space, or afraid of
the power of aircraft engines, or some or all other aspects of flying. D is incorrect
because “histrionics” refers to exaggerated emotionality and attention seeking. There is
no indication that this man exaggerates his experience of fear, or that he uses it to seek
attention.

34*. The correct answer is A. This response is an example of an “honest labeling”
response. It clearly and simply identifies the client’s behavior as the therapist sees it. B
is incorrect because it makes a generalization about the client and offers reassurance, but
does not clearly and simply label the behavior. C is incorrect because it draws inferences
about the past, rather than clearly and simply labeling the client’s behavior. D is incorrect
because it labels the client’s character, based on a generalized inference about the client’s
character, but doesn’t clearly and simply label the behavior that has lead the therapist to
make this inference.

35*. The correct answer is B. Serial sevens involves counting backwards from 100 by 7.
For example... 100...93...86...79... This involves arithmetic calculation, and it also
involves concentration, the focusing of attention on a task. A is incorrect because serial
sevens does test concentration but it does not test orientation. Orientation refers to a
person’s understanding and sense of relationship to time, place and person. C is also
incorrect because serial sevens does not test orientation. D is incorrect because serial
sevens does not test intelligence. Intelligence is a complex cognitive function involving
the ability to adapt to new situations, learn from experience, pursue goal related activity,
think abstractly, synthesize concepts, and solve problems through insight. Calculation
ability and concentration are related to these functions, but they are very small parts of
these complex processes.

36*. The correct answer is D. Those who provide services to individuals with
Alzheimer’s dementia recommend that family members maintain social contact but keep
visits short and limited in number so that the individual doesn’t feel overwhelmed. A is
incorrect because it would deprive the mother of social support that she could benefit
from, whether she recognizes her visitors or not. A is also incorrect because good
psychosocial care, as well as good physical care, is important. B is incorrect because
visits by many people at once could be experienced as stressful and overwhelming. C is

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009
