MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 419

 

121*. The correct answer is A. B is incorrect because enuresis refers to repeated voiding
of urine into bed or clothing whether it is involuntary or intentional. C is incorrect
because this factor determines whether or not a child has “primary” or “secondary”
enuresis. In other words, it determines the type of enuresis, not whether enuresis is
present. D is incorrect because the minimum age for enuresis is five, not seven.

122*. The correct answer is D. You are not obligated to investigate the client’s finances
and make a determination of ability to pay. You only need to determine that the balance
is overdue and not paid, as long as conditions A, B and C are met. A is incorrect because
a client is not responsible for complying with financial arrangements that have not been
made clear to the client. B is incorrect because marriage and family therapists have an
ethical obligation to “advance the welfare of families and individuals.” Although this
appears in the AAMFT Code of Ethics as a broadly stated value, the principle is generally
interpreted in the community as including an ethical obligation to protect clients from
imminent danger, even if this must be done without compensation. C is incorrect because
it is similar to A. Clarifying the consequences of nonpayment is an aspect of making the
financial arrangements clear to the client.

123*. The correct answer is A. Gestalt Therapy offers the client a process of self-
discovery. It seeks to bring unconsciously held “unfinished business” (aspects of
ourselves which we leave in the background) to consciousness. As the client becomes
more self-aware, his or her own natural capacity for self-integration takes ownership of,
and organizes, information brought to consciousness for a renewed sense of wholeness.
B is incorrect because identification of triggers and exacerbating factors is more
characteristic of a cognitive or behavioral approach. C is incorrect because teaching
assertion skills is also more characteristic of a behavioral approach, and is used in
teaching functional communication in family therapy as well. D is incorrect because
Gestalt Therapy is characteristically done in small group or individual sessions, not
usually in family groups. The focus is on the individual’s experience, not family
dynamics.

124*. The correct answer is B. Ego integrity refers to a sense of wholeness (integrity) in
one’s life. This comes about through accepting responsibility for one’s own thoughts,
feelings, desires, decisions and actions. Despair is the result of self-fragmentation, a
disowning of one’s life experience through projection, displacement, rationalization and
other defenses. A is incorrect because the client’s sense of closeness to friends and
family is more directly related to one’s sense of intimacy versus isolation. C is incorrect
because a client’s sense of integrity or sense of despair refers to “a sense of” something,
not one’s actual ego functioning. D is incorrect because enjoyment of the pursuit of goals
is more directly related to one’s sense of initiative versus guilt.

125*. The correct answer is C. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and
family therapists may not withhold records under their immediate control that are

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 200B

