MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 409

 

helping the client to better cope with his challenges in the real world. B could be seen as
a reason for helping him work through fixations, but it is not the ultimate reason. C is
incorrect because, although a sense of personal integrity is important within
Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy, it is not the primary reason for resolving fixations. D is
incorrect because androgynous personality traits refers to the way in which our
personalities manifest features characteristic of both genders. All people have
androgynous personality traits, and Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy does not view this as a
problem that needs to be resolved.

85*. The correct answer is C. Mental health treatment may be provided to a minor age
12 or older on an outpatient basis if the minor “is mature enough to participate
intelligently in the outpatient service” and would either present a danger of serious
physical or mental harm to self or others or is the alleged victim of incest or child abuse.
A is incorrect because, even though these three types of problems would qualify a 12 year
old to give consent to her own mental health outpatient treatment, minor consent is not
limited to these three types of problems. Under the law a 12 year old can give consent to
mental health treatment in relation to any kind of danger of serious physical or mental
harm, even if it does not involve pregnancy, child abuse or substance abuse. B is
incorrect because, even though this is one of the criteria for a minor to consent to medical
or dental care, the criterion does not apply to mental health care per se. D is incorrect
because the minor consent law does not address the client’s motivation to engage in
treatment, only the minor’s maturity to participate intelligently in treatment.

86*. The correct answer is A. The MFT license law defines marriage and family therapy
in this manner. “the practice of marriage, family, and child counseling shall mean that
service performed with individuals, couples, or groups wherein interpersonal
relationships are examined for the purpose of achieving more adequate, satisfying, and
productive marriage and family adjustments. This practice includes relationship and pre-
marriage counseling. The applications of marriage, family, and child counseling
principles and methods includes, but is not limited to, the use of applied
psychotherapeutic techniques, to enable individuals to mature and grow within marriage
and the family, and the provision of explanations and interpretations of the psycho sexual
and psychosocial aspects of relationships.” B is incorrect because improvements in
physical health are generally outside an MFT’s scope of practice, except to the extent that
physical health is indirectly improved when psychosocial and family adjustment
improves. C and D are incorrect because, even though they refer to a service that is
commonly performed by MFT’s, they are not explicitly referred to in the legal definition
of an MFT’s scope of practice.

87 *. The correct answer is A. Empathic listening and acceptance are therapeutic
relationship qualities which are relevant to every aspect of therapeutic intervention, from
engagement through termination. B is incorrect because identification of options for
problem resolution is a treatment planning technique, not an assessment technique. C is
incorrect because selection of objectives, and their relationship to a goal, are also

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

