MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 397

 

would not be applied in the way described in the question, which involves examining
alternatives and making choices. B is incorrect because behavioral specification deals
with observable or even measurable behavior. It does not involve drawing speculative
inferences about motivation or cause. C is also incorrect because behavioral specification
deals with observable behavior, not speculative inferences about one’s motivation.

44*. The correct answer is B. An adjustment disorder may be diagnosed whenever
emotional or behavioral symptoms develop “in response to an identifiable stressor.” This
could involve symptoms that are either caused or triggered by the stressor. A is incorrect
because the stressor does not need to be the ultimate cause of the problem. For example,
a socially isolated person with poor coping skills might have a minor auto accident and
develop an adjustment disorder with depressed mood. The accident did not cause the
symptoms, because most people experiencing the same kind of accident would not
become as deeply depressed. In this case the social isolation and weak ego functioning
could be seen as the cause of the problem, with the auto accident as the trigger that led to
the emergence of symptoms. C is incorrect because an adjustment disorder does not need
to be caused by a personality disposition. Even a person with fairly strong coping skills
might develop an adjustment disorder under certain circumstances. D is incorrect
because an adjustment disorder should not be diagnosed when symptoms are merely an
exacerbation of a preexisting Axis I or Axis II disorder.

45*. The correct answer is D. Depressed individuals need help increasing, not
decreasing, their activity level. This tends to overcome a sense of lethargy and reduce
depression. A, B and C are incorrect because irritability, excessive concern over physical
health or ignoring one’s physical health, and anxiety are common symptoms and/ or
associated features of dysthymic disorder and are appropriate targets for therapeutic
intervention.

46*. The correct answer is D. A person usually needs to acknowledge the problem and
be able to accurately understand the nature of a problem before he or she will engage in
activities needed to resolve the problem. This statement is true for the client addressed by
the question, because the question says “Assume that all four objectives need to be I
accomplished.” The question is actually asking “if all four objectives need to be
accomplished, which needs to be accomplished first.” D is an objective related to
developing this acknowledgment and understanding. A is incorrect because it involves
one of the ultimate outcomes, not one of the first objectives to be achieved. B and C are
incorrect because they involve acting on a strategy for resolving a problem, before the
person can even describe the nature of the problem.

47*. The correct answer is C. The way the objective is stated now, you wouldn’t know if
the client met the objective after three days of having social conversations, or after three
Weeks of having social conversations. It would be better to say “client will report: having
one or more satisfying social conversations daily for at least one month by June 15.” A is
incorrect because the objective statement is already measurable. It calls for one or more

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

