Page 432  MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

abstinence and recovery. A is incorrect because substance abusing clients who have a
well established pattern of recovery have already made the choice referred to in the
concept of “forced choice.” C and D are incorrect because the concept or “forced choice”
has not been used in the treatment of people with obsessive compulsive or oppositional
defiant disorders.

171*. The correct answer is B. Triangulation is a dysfunctional strategy used by
members of a family to avoid dealing with conflict in a subsystem such as the marital
relationship. This strategy involves diverting the energy of the conflict to a third member
of the family. There are two types of triangulation. The first, exemplified by the vignette,
is termed “detour protect.” This type involves two family members joining together to
protect another family member. Typically, the intensity of the effort to protect appears
excessive or outright unnecessary. The other type of triangulation termed “detour attack,”
involves two family members joining together against another family member who is
seen as a common enemy. These coalitions can be formed between the mother and father
or across generational boundaries. A and C are incorrect because distraction and
displacement are ego defense mechanisms, aspects of personality, which may contribute
to triangulation in family dynamics, but are not a matter of family dynamics per se. D is
incorrect because negotiation is a healthy means of resolving conflict, not avoiding it as
happens with triangulation.

172*. The correct answer is D, initiation of the differentiation process coupled with
rejection of her individuation by her caretakers. Clients diagnosed with borderline
personality disorder present as extremely unstable, particularly with respect to
interpersonal relationships, self-image, and affect. Borderline clients will often
demonstrate an inability to understand that when they leave a person, that person will
continue to exist. As a result, they become overwhelmed by their fear of abandonment
and will tend to cling to people in moments of separation while, in contrast, they may
push people away as they get too close. Kernberg and Hughes recognized the
resemblance between this behavior and the behavior of a three year old child who is faced
with the developmental challenge referred to by Margaret Mahler as “separation-
individuation.” While a child is undergoing separation-individuation, it is important that
the primary caretakers support the child’s efforts to separate and individuate while
making it clear to the child that they are a secure base. If the caretakers do not provide a
secure base for the child, separation may trigger overwhelming anxiety for the child. Like
the borderline client, these children demonstrate insecurity regarding interpersonal
relationships. Further research has confirmed this type of developmental impasse in the
childhood histories of many borderline clients.

173*. The correct answer is B. Client Centered Therapy views judgmental, depreciating
social interactions as the cause of impairments in one’s own “valuing process” and self-
actualizing tendency. That’s why the approach considers a genuine, empathic and
accepting therapeutic relationship to be a necessary and sufficient condition to restore
psychological health. A is incorrect because genuine encounters enhance the client’s

