MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 437

 

a client’s sense of self-esteem. Depending on how this information is presented to a
client, it may support self-esteem, threaten self-esteem, or have little or no effect on self-
esteem.

190*. The correct answer is A. Humanistic Existential approaches to psychotherapy
view the primary locus of change as being within the client. The quality of the
therapeutic relationship releases the client’s own natural healing and problem solving
capacities. B is incorrect because a particular client might not have a problem with
morality and ethics. In a Humanistic Existential approach each client will determine the
content of therapy sessions as issues emerge for the client during sessions. C is incorrect
because this approach to psychotherapy emphasizes experience rather than understanding
in the intellectual sense. Also, underlying causes are not as relevant as immediate here
and now experience. D is incorrect because this approach to psychotherapy focuses on
immediate experience during sessions, not discussion of a client’s social relationships
outside of sessions.

191*. The correct answer is A. When using the brainstorming technique, the therapist
initially engages the client in developing a list of alternative beliefs without considering
the validity or practicality of the alternatives. The list should include whatever comes to
mind. Then the client is engaged in considering potential consequences of changing the
schema (or core belief) in question. B is incorrect because brainstorming initially
involves a free flow of ideas that come to mind, not carefully assessed ideas. C is
incorrect because brainstorming initially involves generating many alternatives, not a
focus on one option. D is incorrect because in Cognitive Therapy it is primarily the
client, not the therapist, who needs to generate the list of alternative beliefs.

192*. The correct answer is C. The interviewing techniques referred to in this question
engage the client in a reflective discussion of the client’s personality and situation. This
contributes to developing a sense of control through a cognitive grasp of reality. It
supports many ego functions including reality testing, judgment, sense of reality, and
others. It also helps clients to perceive a range of options in resolving their problems and
therefore become better able to select from among those options. A is incorrect because
“sustaining procedures,” such as demonstrations of interest, caring support, and
reassurance are techniques more focused on helping a client to relax and develop a sense
of support from you as the therapist. B is incorrect because “ventilation procedures” are
better geared to helping a client act out his or her inner life so that it can be observed and
reflected on. Such techniques include role play, structured fantasy and play therapy. D is
incorrect because “opportunities” usually refers to resources in the social and material
environment. Techniques such as distribution of public assistance, advocacy for access to
community services, and referral are better geared to helping a client access opportunities
for growth and more adaptive social functioning.

193*. The correct answer is B. A client’s diagnosis is not required when making an elder
abuse report. Many abused elders do not have a diagnosis, and even if the elder does

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

