MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 433

 

inherent capacity to grow and change. C is incorrect because anxiety is associated with
anticipating the future, not living in the present, here and now moment. D is incorrect
because dysfunctional automatic thoughts are a concept used in a Cognitive Therapy
perspective, not a Client Centered Theory perspective.

174*. The correct answer is A. One commonly used framework for describing parenting
(Maccoby & Martin) looks at four categories of parenting that differ on the basis of two
qualities: demandingness and responsiveness. Authoritarian parents are highly
demanding but lack responsiveness. These parents create well-structured environments
with clear rules for their children. However, they fail to provide explanations for their
rules or take into consideration the child’s response to their rules. Rules are expected to
be obeyed without debate. B is incorrect because, in contrast, permissive parents are low
on demandingness and highly responsive. These parents tend to be very lenient and
nondirective, allowing the child to create structure in his/her environment. C is incorrect
because authoritative parents are highly demanding and highly responsive. These parents
provide clear rules for their children but offer explanation and consider the child’s
perspective. Research has demonstrated that in relation to these four parenting styles,
children of authoritative parents tend to become the most well adjusted adults. D is
incorrect because uninvolved parents are low on demandingness and responsiveness.
This parenting style has proven to be the most damaging to the child’s growth.

175*. The correct answer is A. During the initial process of engagement you and the
client should have clarified what she can expect of you in your role as therapist, and what
you can expect of her as the client. Professional boundaries should have been addressed
in that discussion so that when this kind of question arises later, you can remind your
client of your earlier discussion and agreement. B is incorrect because it shifts attention
away from the client to you, and could leave the client feeling competitive with you.
Both B and C are incorrect because they focus on only one aspect of a complex
relationship. A realistic appraisal of your relationship with your spouse probably includes
both positive aspects and problems. A full, meaningful description of your relationship
would shift the client’s attention away from working on her own issues. D is incorrect
because your client doesn’t necessarily have a tendency to be intrusive. Even if your
client persisted in trying to find out about your relationship with your spouse, that
wouldn’t mean that your client has a general tendency toward intrusiveness. The client
might be intrusive with you, a particular person, at this point in time. That does not
constitute a tendency.

176*. The correct answer is C. At the initial stage of group development, known as the
“orientation stage,” group members resist self-exploration and self-disclosure and,
instead, seek comfort and mutual support. A sense of similarities leads to a sense of
mutual identification which relieves anxiety. A is incorrect because members are likely
to still harbor magical expectations about the therapist’s ability to solve their problems
for them during the orientation stage. Hostility develops in the next stage after these
expectations are frustrated. B is incorrect because each client is more likely to harbor the

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

