MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 403

 

your attention to managing those triggers as a means of maintaining stability. B is
incorrect because, even though a description of strengths and resources should be
included in your clinical documentation, it does not “justify a maintenance oriented
treatment plan.” C is incorrect because past treatments may have been effective in some
ways, but ineffective in others. It is the client’s repeated decompensations that have
occurred in spite of past treatments that justifies a maintenance oriented treatment plan,
not the nature of those past treatments per se. D is incorrect because it’s not necessarily
true that high levels of expressed emotion in the family is what has triggered this client’s
decompensations, even though this is a factor, among others, that often does cause
decompensations for some people with schizophrenia.

63*. The correct answer is D. You have already documented the fact that the ADHD is
causing the impaired social functioning. You can make a case for focusing on improving
the client’s low self-esteem if you can show that it is exacerbating the client’s impaired
functioning which results from the ADHD. That way you show that you will be reducing
social functioning impairments which result from symptoms of the diagnosis. It might
also be helpful to document the fact that low self-esteem is a DSM recognized
“associated feature” of ADHD, even though it is not one of the required criteria
symptoms. A is incorrect because low self-esteem does not cause ADHD. B is incorrect
because, even though low self-esteem can result from ADHD, it is not a social
functioning impairment. Low self-esteem does, however, cause or exacerbate social
functioning impairments, and that is the point you need to make in your documentation in
order to access insurance coverage for this client. C is incorrect because this client’s
insurance does not pay for treatment of the consequences of impaired social functioning.
It pays for treatment of impaired social functioning. You can treat impaired social
functioning by resolving its causes, not its consequences.

64*. The correct answer is B. Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) is a model of
comprehensive, community-based treatment, rehabilitation, and support developed out of
the work of Marx, Stein, and Test in the late 1960's. Part of its successful dissemination
results from the well documented efficacy of the model, however many who claim to use
the ACT model borrow some features but not others. A high fidelity, robust replication
of the model means that you are using most, if not all, of its features, including the fact
that Marx, Test and Stein used relatively small client to staff ratios in order to achieve
their efficacious results. A is incorrect because the ACT model encourages seriously
mentally ill clients to become active in the community and to join organizations. The
model does not assume that people with serious mental illness find involvement in work
and social recreation to be too stressful. The important thing is to encourage a degree of
community involvement that the individual is ready for. C is incorrect because the ACT
model uses a multidisciplinary team, but emphasizes the interchangeability of roles, not
well differentiated roles. D is incorrect because the ACT model is designed to provide
relatively long term services over the years.

65*. The correct answer is A. Since this client is beginning to plan to take action, you

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

