MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 413

 

98*. The correct answer is B. Token economy uses operant conditioning to reward
clients as they display adaptive behaviors. When this occurs they receive tokens which
can be exchanged for desired goods and privileges. It is presumed that the learning will
generalize to using the adaptive behaviors in other situations. A is incorrect because,
even though systematic desensitization is a behavioral technique, it is primarily used for
treatment of anxiety and phobic avoidance. B is a better answer because token economy
can be used for the broad variety of behavior changes encompassed by "rehabilitation" as
referenced in the question. C is incorrect because there is no such technique. "Operant
association" is a meaningless combination of "operant" from the behavioral technique of
"operant conditioning" and "association" from the psychoanalytic technique of "free
association." D is also incorrect because there is no such technique as reflexive
conjecture.

99*. The correct answer is A. Imaginal flooding is a behavioral technique in which the
client is engaged in prolonged exposure to thoughts and images of the traumatic event.
Such exposure leads to extinction. B is incorrect because Conjoint Family Therapy and
other forms of family therapy defuse covert meanings by using clarification, attention to
affect, honest labeling and other descriptive techniques to make hidden meanings overt.
C is incorrect because unfinished business is a Gestalt Therapy concept which refers to
the aspects of ourselves that we leave in the background of our mental life as we go about
tending to the less threatening issues that we permit into consciousness. D is incorrect
because problems of resonance is a Structural Family Therapy concept related to family
enmeshment and disengagement.

100*. The correct answer is A. Factious disorders, involving either depression, anxiety,
somatic complaints or other symptoms, are initially voluntarily induced by the client in
order to take on a sick role in the family and/or community. B is incorrect because
everyone holds beliefs that are not based on factual information. This information would
not help you to understand whether or not your client’s condition is factitious. C is
incorrect because factitious depression, unlike an adjustment disorder with depressed
mood or posttraumatic stress disorder, is not necessarily caused or triggered by exposure
to stressors. D is incorrect because the client’s way of relating to you might reveal
information about the client’s personality traits or personality disorder (such as
narcissistic, borderline or paranoid) but is not particularly relevant to assessing factitious
depression.

101*. The correct answer is A. SUDS is a Subjective Units of Distress scale in which a
client rates their anxiety from 0 or 1, the lowest level of anxiety they have ever
experienced, to 10, the highest level of anxiety they have ever experienced. A score of 5
is halfway between these two extremes. B is incorrect because a score of 5 indicates half
way between 0 and 10, not five times more than 0. Also, a SUDS level indicates a
person’s experience in relation to their own subjectively experienced extremes, not in
relation to a recent baseline for this course of therapy. Note, however, that a SUDS score

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

