MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 411

 

to assume that the client will object based on the information presented in the question,
especially since the client is troubled by his substance abuse and appears to recognize it
as a problem.   B, C and D are incorrect because they each rule out the option of using a
valuable assessment technique.

91*. The correct answer is B. This approach allows participants to develop mutual
agreements about confidentiality in which they will feel a sense of “ownership.” This
approach also does not make the mistake of giving clients the false impression that you
have the authority or ability to enforce their agreements with one another. You only can
confirm your own confidentiality practices. A is incorrect because it would give clients
the false impression that you have the ability to assure their compliance with their
confidentiality agreements. C is incorrect because by setting your rules you have not
given the clients an opportunity to develop their own mutually acceptable rules in which
they can feel a sense of ownership. C is also incorrect because it would give clients the
false impression that you have the ability to assure their compliance with their
confidentiality agreements. D is incorrect because confidentiality can be expected even
though it cannot be assured. D is also incorrect because your own confidentiality
practices can both be expected and assured within limits allowed by law.

92*. The correct answer is D. Among men who have sex with men, those who abuse
substances, especially stimulants, are more likely than non-substance users to engage in
unprotected sex and become infected with HIV. Sexual risk taking while intoxicated .
appears to occur due to disinhibition effects, altered perception of risk, lack of
assertiveness to negotiate safe practices, and perceived powerlessness. A is incorrect
because a sense of entitlement and grandiosity may be characteristic of amphetamine
intoxication, but not withdrawal. B is incorrect because, even though the various
psychoactive dings appear to have a negative effect on the immune system, this influence
does not appear to be as strong as the substantial increase in unprotected sex while
intoxicated. C is incorrect because gay men who abuse stimulants are not at lower risk of
becoming HIV infected, and because amphetamine use does not stimulate the
effectiveness of the body's immune system.

93*. The correct answer is A. The approach can help Jana develop an empathic
understanding of Joe’s concerns to reduce the chances of her misunderstanding his
intentions. The two can then work together in a non-acrimonious way, to develop a
mutually supportive approach to parenting with a realistic understanding of the nature of
Jana’s mood swings. B is incorrect because Joe needs to communicate his concerns so
that the couple can work through the issue to develop a mutual resolution. Conscious
suppression of his doubts will not eliminate them. C is incorrect because the question
does not provide any reason to think that Jana has doubts about Joe’s parenting abilities.
Arousing such doubts for the sake of balance in the relationship might only lead to
balanced distrust and hostility. D is incorrect because this distinction will need to be
made as part of the assessment process, but making the distinction is not an intervention
strategy issue. This question asks about your intervention strategy.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

