Page 402 A MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

you need to refrain from recommending yourself when a colleague is seeking a referral
for a client who could benefit from the kind of service you offer. However, keep in mind
that, because a potential conflict of interest could arise, the client should be informed of
this possibility so that the client could make an informed choice about the referral. The
client might be willing to give consent for both your consultee and your supervisee to be
aware of his or her identity. A

60*. The correct answer is B. The ethical standards for psychotherapy by phone have not
been fully developed, but certain themes emerge across the various position papers and
articles on the subject. These themes are consistent with Business and Professions Code 6
Sec. 2290.5 regarding “telemedicine.” One of these themes requires that the client be
informed of the potential risks, consequences and benefits of psychotherapy by phone.
Risks include the fact that clients can more easily conceal emotions and information and
nonverbal communication cues are limited. A is incorrect because such sessions over the
phone would constitute psychotherapy, especially when you already have a pre-existing
psychotherapist-client relationship with the person who will be receiving the services.
Psychotherapy by phone is subject to all of the same standards and requirements that
apply to psychotherapy conducted on a face-to-face basis. C is incorrect because there is
no ethical or legal standard requiring a certain mix of face-to-face sessions with telephone
sessions. D is incorrect because the sessions with this client will be viewed as
psychotherapy even if they are referred to as counseling, especially in view of your prior
psychotherapy relationship with this client.

61*. The correct answer is D. If the client was so medically compromised that she
needed to be hospitalized, then the first priority is to see that she prevents starvation and
gains weight. This can best be accomplished with the firm, structured, and professionally
detached support provided by nursing staff. C is incorrect because family members will
probably need some time to learn how to avoid power struggles, and the client will need
some time to learn how to relate to family members without aggression, undercutting, or
Capitulation. The client's need to restore adequate nutrition and gain weight cannot wait
for these psychosocial changes to take place. A is incorrect because, even though
between 40% and 60% of people with anorexia nervosa also have major depression, the
depression often resolves as the individual gains weight. Also, keep in mind that the
question does not state that this client is at risk for imminent suicide, but the client is at
risk of medical problems due to her extreme weight loss. B is incorrect because this is a
psychosocial objective that many people with anorexia nervosa need to accomplish, but it
does not have the same imminent priority as the intervention described in answer D.

62*. The correct answer is A. A description of the client’s repeated decompensations
will establish the need for a maintenance oriented, rather than a recovery oriented,
treatment plan. A description of the frequency of past decompensations will establish a
baseline from which progress can be shown. This will make it clear that the client is
benefitting from your services even though symptoms might not be improving. A
description of the events that have triggered your client’s decompensations will justify

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

