Page 388 I A MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

the result of dissociation used as a defense against the pain of their own earlier
victimization. B is incorrect because, even though apologies might be a prosocial thing to
do when the timing is right, it will not help the child to develop a greater sense of _
empathy. Apologies might eventually come naturally as a result of developing greater
empathy. C is incorrect because empathy is based on one's experience, not on behavioral
social skill performance. D is incorrect because appropriate expression of anger may be a
desirable objective, but it is not directly related to developing a greater sense of empathy.
Empathy involves reflection on one's own experience, using imagination to compare that
experience to the apparent experience of another person, and checking out one's
impressions of the other person's experience with that person.

12*. The correct answer is C. A mental status exam describes many aspects of a person's
mental functioning at the time the exam is conducted. A is incorrect because the mental
status exam provides a description of a person, it does not test cause-effect hypotheses. B
is incorrect because mental status exams are usually conducted during a clinical
interview. In order to determine the factors which trigger the onset of symptoms one
would have to observe the client in a variety of settings over an extended period of time.
D is incorrect because the mental status exam is a description at a point in time. The
course of deterioration could be described by comparing changes in mental status exam
findings over time, but chances are that nobody was available to conduct such an exam at
the time of initial onset for this client, especially since it probably wasn't anticipated.

13*. The correct answer is D. A treatment plan is a collaborative process between the
client and therapist. The ethics of self-determination, as well as the practical need to
engage the client in a treatment process, require that a treatment plan focus on whatever
issue the client is most willing and able to focus on. A is incorrect because it is not
known whether the depression is causing the suicide risk. This client's suicide attempts
may have been due to impulse control problems, thrill seeking, or attempts to manipulate
others, rather than due to a desire to die. B is incorrect because this client may not be a
reliable reporter with regard to this issue. For example, the client might have a dysthymic
disorder. The substances might exacerbate his dysthymia. When he is not using alcohol
his more moderate level of depression might not seem like depression at all when
compared to his more severe substance induced depression. C is incorrect because cause-
effect relationships are very difficult to establish. If therapists had to delay formulation of
a treatment plan until cause-effect relationships were established, client contacts would be
little more than endless assessment interviews.

14*. The correct answer is B. After discussing the nature of intimate relationships, it
might also be helpful to elicit the client's comments about what it feels like to share
personal and sensitive information with someone he or she hardly knows. A is incorrect
because some degree of sexualization of the therapeutic relationship is very common. It
is not necessarily caused by prior sexual exploitation. C is incorrect because professional
distance should preclude sexual behavior, but the emergence of sexual feelings is not
something that can be eliminated in professional or other relationships. D is incorrect

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

