MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 423

 

6924) that allows for minor consent treatment if the minor presents a danger of serious
physical or mental harm or if the minor is the alleged victim of incest or child abuse.
However, these requirements do not apply if the minor consent is related to treatment of
an alcohol or drug related problem.

137*. The correct answer is A. Groups are best able to promote positive change when
communication patterns are group centered, not leader centered. B is incorrect because
people are most open to change when in crisis, especially if the crisis can be
acknowledged and worked through. Also, conflict stimulates interaction which enhances
cohesiveness. Open airing of conflict leads to conflict resolution. C is incorrect because
it is functional for a group to adopt norms which balance supportive structure with
individuality and spontaneity. D is incorrect because confrontation stimulates change,
while support is needed to take the risks and practice the kind of sharing and self-
exposure which facilitates change. 

138*. The correct answer is B. This is the only answer that addresses the group’s actual
pursuit of goals. All other answers address either individuals’ or the group’s explicit
goals, that is, the goals which are conscious and stated. Implicit goals are those that are
actually pursued, usually spontaneously, and not necessarily with conscious recognition.

139*. The correct answer is A. Fundamentally, corporal punishment is not illegal and
does not require a child abuse report. However, cruel or inhuman corporal punishment
does require a child abuse report. Penal Code Sec. 273d states that "any person who
willfully inflicts upon any child any cruel or inhuman corporal punishment or injury
resulting in a traumatic condition is guilty of a felony..." B, C and D are incorrect
because the law permits corporal punishment by a person other than the child's parents
(B), even if it results in some form of harm to the child (C), such as frightening the child,
and even if it is inflicted against the child's will (D), as is usually the case with corporal
punishment, as long as the punishment is not cruel or inhuman.

140*. The correct answer is D. A person needs to acknowledge that they have a problem
before they can examine the true nature of the problem. Then, once the person has
clarified the nature of the problem, the next step is to identify strengths, resources and/or
strategies available to resolve the problem. The next step is to act on those strengths,
resources and/or strategies before eventually being able to manifest the ultimate desired
outcome. Answer D, identifying positive effects of previous compliance, is related to
identifying strengths, resources and/or strategies for resolving the problem. This must be
done before the client can take action to resolve the problem and accomplish the
objectives referred to in A, B and C.

141*. The Correct answer is A. Magical thinking can help to relieve tension, but it is not
based on an accurate assessment of reality. B is incorrect because partializing a complex
problem helps a person to begin to resolve the problem one step at a time. C is incorrect
because social supports both help to relieve tension and also provide much needed

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

