Page 390 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

contact often occurs after an individual has already been accepted as a client, such as
when a marriage and family therapist works in an agency and the applicant has already
been selected by virtue of an intake interview with another staff member. C is incorrect
because the initial face to face relationship is often also the initial communication
between therapist and client. D is incorrect because the therapeutic relationship is often
well developed prior to developing a formal treatment plan as the therapist and client
work through issues of engagement and assessment during early sessions.
Fundamentally, B, C and D are incorrect because the code of ethics requires informed
consent as early as feasible in the therapeutic relationship, and not at any of these other
points in time.

19*. The correct answer is B. Groups have three types of leaders for these three types of
leadership functions. The person turned to for expert information is not necessarily the
person turned to for leadership in getting the group through an emotional crisis, and that
person is not necessarily the one the group turns to when deciding what actions should be
taken next to achieve a commonly held group goal. A is incorrect because it will only
identify one leader. Although it is possible that the expertise, activity and affective
leadership might be vested in one charismatic individual, B is a better answer because
there will likely be more than one leader. C and D are incorrect because these statements
address group members‘ interpersonal attachments to one another. Leadership has more
to do with an individual's ability to influence decisions and actions. A strong leader may
be seen as much too intimidating for casual conversation or socializing.

20*. The correct answer is C. The efficacy of a particular treatment method has been
established if others have demonstrated effectiveness when using that method. A and B
are incorrect because effectiveness and efficacy are not necessarily the same. Even
though a method has been used effectively by others, it may not be used effectively by
you. You might not use the method thoroughly, or you might possess certain personal
qualities which interfere with the method's effectiveness. Or the method might have been
effective with other clients, but your client might be different than those others in some
important way. D is incorrect because efficacy studies usually focus on whether or not an
intervention method effectively reduces symptoms or reduces functional impairments, not
whether clients like the method. Consumers are often very satisfied with products and
services which don't accomplish their intended purpose.

21*. The correct answer is D. Permission must be obtained by a parent or guardian in
order to provide outpatient mental health treatment to a child under the age of 12. A and
B are incorrect because this child is under 12. These conditions might be relevant in
some cases of a child whose age is 12 or older. C is incorrect because either parent can
give sufficient consent. Consent from both parents is not necessary. However, if one
parent gives consent and the other parent lets you know that he or she does not want the
child to receive treatment, you should consult an attorney before proceeding to treat the
child. Also note that there are some cases in which the parents have agreed to requiring
the consent of both parties, or in which the court has stipulated such a requirement.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

