MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 69

1. The correct answer is A. Both A and B are true answers. A is the best answer
because genuineness directly builds trust. This is almost obvious if you consider the
opposite statement, "Deceit (or duplicity) builds trust," which is obviously untrue. B is a
true statement in the sense that genuineness leads to trust which leads to self-revelation
which leads to the potential for a deeper understanding of the client's psychodynamics,
but B is not as directly true as A is. There is no empirical basis for assuming that C is
true, and some empirical evidence that it is not true. D is incorrect because accurate
empathy refers to the ability to use one's own imagination and experience to understand
another's experience. This is not directly related to genuineness. It is possible to be
genuine but lack empathy.

2. The correct answer is B. A minor can consent to outpatient mental health treatment at
the age of 12 if certain conditions apply. A is incorrect because a 10 year old child cannot
consent to their own treatment. Consent must be provided by a parent or guardian. C and
D are incorrect because, even though minors at these ages can consent to treatment, the
question asks about the “youngest age” at which a minor can consent to their own
treatment.

3. The correct answer is B. The purpose of the initial session is usually focused on
engagement ("an opportunity to build relationship") and initial assessment (“gather
important assessment information”), not on changing the client. Both A and D are geared
to changing things before the problem is understood or before the therapist has enough of
a relationship with the client to be effective in changing things. C is incorrect because
this divorced client is not seeking couples treatment.

4. The correct answer is C. Family Code Sec. 6924 (b) 1 requires that the minor be
“mature enough to participate intelligently...” A is incorrect because a minor does not
need to be the victim of child abuse in order to consent to treatment. Consent is valid
from a minor if the minor would “present a danger of serious physical or mental harm to self or to others without such
mental health treatment” regardless of the minor’s abuse history. B is incorrect because
the minimum age for minor consent is 12. D is incorrect because the parent or guardian
does not necessarily need to be involved in any way in the treatment, if their involvement
would be inappropriate.

5. The correct answer is D. This point is explicitly made in Crisis Intervention Theory.
Partializing and prioritizing lead to a "cognitive grasp," just the opposite of confusing the
client, so A is incorrect. Partializing and prioritizing is helpful and, therefore, might lead
to a better relationship, but B is too indirectly related. C is incorrect because you should

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 70     MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

be able to relate your partialized and prioritized subgoals and subtasks to the big picture.

6. The correct answer is D. Clarifying mutual role expectations is a standard component
of the engagement process. The words "should never" are a clue that A is not correct. A
therapist’s expectations of the therapy process might reflect countertransference at times,
but even if they did, the client should still be able to know what they are. B is incorrect
because clients need to know your expectations whether they ask or not. C is incorrect
because your expectations of the therapy process can be expressed without any significant
self-revelation.

7. The correct answer is C. Sweaty palms and dry mouth are respondent behaviors.
Respondent behavior responds to stimuli. In this case the stimulus involves being
exposed to new acquaintances in a social situation. A is false because authority figures
can attempt to control any kind of behavior. B is false. Reinforcement contingencies
control operant, not respondent behavior. D is false because decision and free will can
control both operant and respondent behavior, although many respondent behaviors might
be very difficult to control by decision and free will.

8. The correct answer is A. B, C and D are incorrect because these theories each offer a
conceptual framework for formulating the nature of psychosocial problems. This
framework is usually taught to clients, either through direct explanation and instruction,
or through interpretations. The Humanistic Existential approach focuses on offering the
kind of therapeutic alliance which will enhance the client's efforts to formulate the
problem in a way that is _most meaningful from his or her own perspective. This is not a
rigid and absolute distinction among these four approaches, but a matter of emphasis.

9. The correct answer is D. Any marriage and family text will attest to A. B is
established in psychoanalytic theory. Many people will rule out C simply because
support and reassurance seem to be positive techniques, but even a positive technique can
have a downside. Support and reassurance can relieve some of the anxiety that might be
motivating a client to work on problems and change. This can lead to a "flight into
health" and the client can come to depend on the therapist’s support and reassurance, .
rather than developing their own internal locus of control and judgment about their own
adequacy. All three options are correct, so D is the best answer.

10. The correct answer is A. Ventilation may momentarily relieve a person of pent up
frustrations and other problematic feelings, but the primary purpose, the farther
reaching purpose, is to generate information about the client's thoughts, feelings, and
dynamics so that they may be "worked through" therapeutically. C is incorrect because
ventilation will not necessarily deepen the therapeutic alliance. For example, some
clients come to feel ashamed and, therefore, more guarded with their therapist after
having revealed more than they, in retrospect, feel that they should have. D is false
because ventilation, if it is overdone, can actually cause a sense of overexposure and
premature termination.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 7 1

 

11. The correct answer is C. A is incorrect because it assumes that acculturation
facilitates psychosocial adaptation in all cases, and because it presumes that the therapist
should make this decision for the client. A person's degree of acculturation must be
determined by the individual himself or herself. Many individuals prefer to live primarily
within a cultural community with little contact with the multicultural mainstream
community. The client in the question might even be expecting to return to his or her
native country, in which case acculturation in this country would be less relevant. B is
incorrect because it makes the assumptions made by answer A, and because it assumes
that family members are the best source of cultural socialization. This is not always the
case. Answer D is incorrect because, like answer A, it does not allow for self-
determination. Answer C is based on the value of self-determination.

12. The correct answer is D. See the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders.

13. The correct answer is A. Hyperthyroidism speeds up a person. It is commonly
associated with anxiety, rarely with depression. A person can have psychotic experiences
in association with high anxiety but the anxiety is primary and much more prevalent,
therefore the best answer. D is false because cognitive dissonance refers to incongruity of
a person's thoughts. This happens to all people and is not directly associated with
hyperthyroidism.

14. The correct answer is B. Schizophrenic hallucinations are most likely to be auditory,
although they may be visual as well. There is no specific association between dementia
and olfactory hallucinations. Olfactory hallucinations (hallucinations involving the sense
of smell) indicate an organic disturbance such as brain injury, physiological changes in
brain chemistry, intoxication or withdrawal from intoxication.

15. The correct answer is A. Considering the client's purpose in seeking therapy, the
treatment is likely to be relatively lengthy. The therapist has time to allow the client's
story to unfold as a way of engaging and assessing. B is incorrect because in the initial
interview the therapist doesn't know enough about the client to recommend any particular
solution. C is incorrect because the presenting problem hasn't yet been fully expressed.
You can't focus on the development of something unless you know what that something
is. There are clients, therapists and therapeutic approaches for which D might be a
correct answer, but A is a much better reflection of the general standard of practice with a
client who presents with this therapeutic goal. Besides, there are better ways to help a
client take responsibility for resolving confusion than by remaining silent.

16. The correct answer is D. All three of these factors are commonly discussed in
literature on culturally sensitive practice. While A, B and C are all true, D is the best
answer because it is the most inclusive.

17. The correct answer is A. When a man and a woman work with a single therapist of

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 72 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

either gender, the odd person out generally feels some sense of threat as they scan for
signs of alliance between their partner and the therapist. B is false because, although a
client's tendency toward triangulation could be tested in a co-therapy situation, that is not .
the primary purpose. Besides, triangulation could be tested when a single therapist works
with a couple. C is a popular answer to this question. Co-therapists might attempt to
model cross gender communication at times. However, A is considered a better answer
because it relates to the entire course of therapy and because co-therapists of both sexes
will accomplish the purpose expressed in A even in cases where there is no attempt to
model cross gender communication. Note that this question might not make much sense
if it applied to a client couple in which both partners were of the same sex, but most
couples are two gender couples and questions should be answered in relation to the most
commonly arising conditions. What is most often true will be considered to be the best
answer.

18. The correct answer is C. A is incorrect because, even though the therapist does not
want to accept the delusion as reality, there is no need to challenge the client, certainly
not initially. B is false because agreeing with a client's delusion is countertherapeutic. It
might enhance some kind of alliance (or collusion), but it won't do anything to
meaningfully enhance the therapeutic alliance. D is incorrect because it implies a
challenge by identifying the belief as false, and because delusional clients don’t know"
why they have come to hold their beliefs.

19. The correct answer is B. A is false because no known culture believes that men can
become pregnant on their Dia del Santo. C is incorrect because an illusion is a distorted
perception, not a false belief. D is incorrect because, even though this client's delusion
might reflect an affirmation of faith, it is definitely a delusion.

20. The correct answer is C. The stem of the question gives you a clue by saying
"Considering the likely psychodynamic purpose of somatization disorder symptoms..."
Their psychodynamic purpose is to serve as a defense against anxiety. By supporting
other more appropriate defenses the client will feel less need to somatisize. A is false
because there's nothing about crisis in the question. B is false because analytic,
interpretive therapy has a poor track record in resolving such symptoms. D might be
helpful to some people who somatisize if their anxiety is related to unmet environmental
needs, but there's nothing said about this client having this problem in the stem of the
question.

21. The correct answer is A. The only childhood mental disorders in which girls
predominate is Rett's Disorder, a rare condition. Boys predominate in mental retardation,
attention deficit disorder (10 to 1), conduct disorder (12 to 1), overanxious disorder, tics
(3 to 1), stuttering (4 to 1), functional enuresis (2 to 1), functional encopresis,
sleepwalking, sleep terror, pervasive developmental disorder, and the specific
developmental disorders.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 73

 

22. The correct answer is C. Telemedicine is addressed in Business and Professions
Code Sec. 2290.5 which states “For the purposes of this section, "telemedicine" means A
the practice of health care delivery, diagnosis, consultation, treatment, transfer of medical
data, and education using interactive audio, video, or data communications.” A is
incorrect because telemedicine is not limited to prescription of medicine. B is incorrect
because telemedicine only applies to interactive use of audio or video communications.
D is incorrect because telemedicine is much more inclusive than counseling by telephone.
C is a better answer because it is more inclusive and because it reflects the actual
definition stated in the law.

23. The correct answer is B. A key phrase in the stem of the question is most likely.
These symptoms could be associated with PTSD, but because adjustment disorder is
much more prevalent than PTSD, they are more likely to reflect adjustment disorder. No
diagnosis is a possibility, but given the severity and acuity of the symptoms, and
resulting impairment, B is probably a better answer. D is incorrect because cyclothymia
is a mood disorder which is not characterized by these anxiety symptoms.

24. The correct answer is A. Business and Professions Code Sec. 2290.5 requires that
telemedicine clients be informed of the fact that “all existing confidentiality protections
apply.” B is incorrect because the law makes no exception for telemedicine in the
application of all existing confidentiality protection. They apply without limitation. C is
incorrect because the law does not require that you inform your clients regarding which of
your treatment processes and procedures have or have not demonstrated efficacy. D is
incorrect because the law does not require any special training in order to engage in the
kinds of electronic communications with clients that would constitute telemedicine. To
the extent that special training might be needed for a particular form of telemedicine
communications, the marriage and family therapist has an ethical obligation to obtain
such training prior to using this or any other treatment process or procedure.

25. The correct answer is D. The key words in the question's stem are “chances are
greatest.” Although A, Band C are true for some incest offenders, none of those choices

are true for most. Most incest perpetrators are heterosexual who have problematic
personality traits. However, by virtue of a diagnostic criterion introduced in the DSM IV
TR any sexual behavior with a child constitutes pedophilia if the perpetrator has also
experienced 6 or more months of recurrent, intense sexually arousing fantasies or sexual

urges involving a prepubescent child.

26 . The correct answer is A. B and C are incorrect because the privilege usually applies
in civil and criminal trials. Such protection is one of the major purposes of having a
privileged communication law. D is incorrect in most cases. Note, however, that
privilege does not apply when the patient is under age 16 and disclosure is in the best

interest of the child.

27. The correct answer is B. The danger must be due to a mental disorder. A is incorrect

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009 L

Page 74 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

because the 5150 law applies regardless of the duration of a danger. C and D are
incorrect because a police officer, for example, may involuntarily hold a person without a
mental health professional's evaluation.

28. The correct answer is D. Penal Code Sec. 11160 rarely if ever applies to marriage
and family therapists because this law only requires reports from health practitioners who
treat wounds and injuries. A is incorrect because marriage and family therapists are
defined as health practitioners under this law. B and C are incorrect because the law does
not apply on the condition of providing psychotherapy or treatment of psychological
trauma...only on the condition of providing medical treatment for a physical wound or

injury.

29. The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because illusions are distorted perceptions
and have little to do with delusions. C is false because a person may be preoccupied with
their delusion but, unlike a delusion, a true obsession is ego dystonic. D is false because
catatonia has nothing to do with what a person believes. An overvalued idea, like a
delusion, does express what a person believes. It is a false idea that is held with less

rigidity than a delusion. See the glossary of the Diagnostic Manual for more information.

30. The correct answer is D. See the Diagnostic Manual for more information about
withdrawal symptoms of the various types of drugs.

31. The correct answer is A. The key words in this question's stem are "level of distress
is disturbing but not disabling," and "reducing her sense of anxiety" through support
and reassurance. If Mrs. K's level of distress were disabling, then reducing the anxiety

might actually help to increase motivation. But since it wasn't disabling, it is more likely

that her level of anxiety was motivating her to change. B is incorrect because
overventilation is much more likely to result from high anxiety than from having one's

anxiety reduced. Support and reassurance might lead to a variety of changes that might
ultimately lead to expanded emotional awareness, but this is not a direct effect. Reduced
motivation for change can be a direct effect. Support and reassurance play such a small
role in the overall therapeutic strategy for restructuring character that D is not a good
answer.

32. The correct answer is C. A is false because being delusional and hyperventilating are
too remotely related. B is not the best answer because the sudden onset and wild
agitation are much more likely related to a brief psychosis than to schizophreniform
disorder. D is incorrect because the presence of delusions essentially rules out adjustment

disorder.

33. The correct answer is A. This exception is explicitly listed in the law, Evidence
Code Sec. 16 - 27. B is incorrect because a minor is entitled to privileged communication
unless the minor “is a child under the age of 16 and the psychotherapist has reasonable
cause to believe that the patient has been the victim of a crime and that disclosure of the

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 75

 

communication is in the best interest of the child.” All other minors under all other
circumstances are covered by privileged communication. C is incorrect because the law

doesn’t recognize a family as being a client. This is a clinical concept. Under the law
each member of a client family is a client, unless you have designated a family member as
“the client” and others as “collaterals” with whom you are communicating on behalf of

“the client.” D is incorrect because clients are protected by privileged communication
whether or not they are fully or effectively engaged in therapy.

34. The correct answer is A. Primitive defenses are those which are available early in the
course of development. B is incorrect because the capacity for logical thought doesn't
develop until well after the capacity for denial (e. g. simply closing one's eyes as a way of
denying reality, as often happens in infancy or toddlerhood). C is false because
sublimation is considered to be the most highly developed and adaptive defense

mechanism and we need a sense of interpersonal boundaries to experience identification.
Introj ection occurs unconsciously and ignores interpersonal boundaries. D is incorrect
because impulse control and sense of reality are ego functions, not ego defense

mechanisms.

35. The correct answer is B. These are the only defenses listed that directly and
necessarily relate to the issue of interpersonal boundaries.

36. The correct answer is B. Information needed to determine the sanity of a criminal
defendant is among the many exceptions to privileged communication in the California
Evidence Code. A is incorrect because a client is entitled to privileged communication
for all information given to a therapist, whether or not the information is accurate. C and
D are incorrect because communications from the therapist to the client and information

obtained by an examination of the client are both explicitly listed as protected information
under Evidence Code Sec. 1012.

37. The correct answer is A. The California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act
(also known as COMIA, Civil Code Sec. 56.10-56.16) applies to marriage and family

therapists in private practice and private health care settings, as distinguished from those
who participate in a public mental health service system governed by the Welfare and
Institutions Code Sec. 5328. Under COMIA the person requesting the information must
submit a written request to both the patient and the provider, and the law specifies what
the content of those written requests must include.

B is incorrect because the person requesting the information must submit the written
request to both the patient and to the provider from whom the information is sought. C is

incorrect because this law allows (does not prohibit) communication via electronic means
such as telephone, fax or e-mail. D is incorrect because the person requesting the
information may use it for any purpose which is acceptable to the client. For example, a
client’s attorney might request information to provide legal representation of the client
and the client certainly has a right to consent to that, even though the information would

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 76 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

not be used for treatment or claiming purposes.

38. The correct answer is A. Object relations are a person's tendencies in the way the
person relates to other people. The object relations disturbance of a person with
borderline personality disorder is evident in his or her tendency toward anger, their
Vacillation between idealization and deprecation of others, and their lability of affect in
interpersonal relationships. Cognition is not a major factor in the borderline personality,
as it is in dementia or in schizophrenia's thought disorder. Adaptive regression is not I
necessarily a major factor, as it is in obsessive compulsive disorder, for example. S
Stimulus barrier is the ability to filter out background from foreground. Schizophrenia
often involves a disturbance of this ego function.

39. The correct answer is D. A is incorrect because numerical calculations are
essentially the same in all cultures. The client's response to a request to make a
calculation may be influenced by the client's culture, but the actual calculation should be
similar across cultures. It is true that educational attainment across cultures varies, and
education can affect calculation ability, but this is not a cultural factor per se. B is
incorrect because most cultures use the same calendar for purposes of daily commerce

and cross cultural communication, even though some cultures use unique calendars for
marking religious or spiritual time. C is incorrect because this is a nonverbal task which

is less likely than others to be influenced by culture. D is correct because proverbs and
their interpretations vary substantially across cultures. It is possible that a client of
another culture may not have even heard the proverb presented by a clinician prior to the
time of the interview, whereas clients of the same culture may be very familiar with the

proverb and its common interpretations.

40. The correct answer is C. The qualities of guilt, competition, and morality are all
associated with the Oedipal complex or Electra complex that arise in Freud's (Oedipal

stage) or Erikson's (initiative vs. guilt) third stage of development.

41. The correct answer is D. The key words in the stem are "can cause problems." In
introducing his eight stages of development Erikson explains that the core conflict of any
one stage could arise at any time in life. When Erikson says that the conflict between
identity and role confusion is the most prominent conflict of adolescence he does not

intend to say that it only arises in adolescence.

42. The correct answer is D. Answers A and B would be important in conducting
academic research or research where it was important to generalize findings to others, but
evaluating an individual client's progress is a matter of clinical concern. C is incorrect
because human subjects review committees are not required for informal evaluation
within a clinical relationship, even though evaluative observations and judgments are
based on principles used in formal research. D is correct because the indicators you use

to evaluate client progress must be valid indicators of the ultimate clinical objective.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 77

 

43. The correct answer is B. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and
family therapists, upon agreeing to provide services to a person or entity at the request of
a third party, clarify, to the extent feasible and at the outset of the service, the nature of
the relationship with each party and the limits of confidentiality.” A is incorrect because
sometimes the third party is entitled to confidential information, as in the case of parents
who have given consent to the treatment of their three year old child, or in some
circumstances where the therapist is appointed by order of the court. C is incorrect
because the referring party does not usually become the therapist’s client. For example, a
referring primary care physician does not become the therapist’s client, and the therapist
has no treatment responsibility to the physician as an individual. D is incorrect because
the therapist and client need to determine what information, if any, will be provided, to the
third party. The client might consent to the release of more or less information than that

specified in answer D.

44. The correct answer is A. Strategic Family Therapy recognizes a core principle of

Social Systems Theory; that every member of a system affects every other member.
Children affect parents, as parents affect children.

45. The correct answer is D. Confusion (A) might lead to confused statements and
questions from the client, not necessarily silence. There is no direct connection between

the client's silence and either insight development (answer B) or engagement (answer C).
But silence is a common way of resisting exploration of threatening issues in therapy.

46. The correct answer is A. B is not a good answer because the client probably does not

yet have a clear sense of having a problem with authority relationships. Such an
explanation would likely be little more than an intellectual discourse with no insight or

gut level integration by the client. C is not a good answer because, if the silence is in fact
a resistance, then whatever emerges from that silence is likely to be a distraction, another
form of resistance. D is not a good answer because this intervention is likely to draw a

pro forma compliance without any real working through.

47. The correct answer is D. A sense of rejection and narcissistic injury could arise at

any time but it is most likely to arise during termination when the client's dependency
relationship is frustrated. Also, any fantasies about having had a personal relationship

with the therapist (outside the bounds of the therapeutic contract and professional
boundaries) are challenged.

48. The correct answer is C. A could be a true answer, but it is not the best answer
because A is sometimes true but C is always true. A transference (B) is a client's

unconscious, distorted perceptions of a therapist. D is false because therapists are only
human and will have unconscious, distorted perceptions regardless of their theoretical

orientation.

49. The correct answer is D. Vascular dementia is also known as multi-infarct dementia.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 78 A MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

An infarct is a stroke....a destruction of tissue as the result of obstructed blood flow to the
tissue. See the Diagnostic Manual for more information.

50. The correct answer is A. B and C are not good answers because this reaction is

common at the time of termination, even from clients with little psychopathology or
clients who have uncovered their significant unresolved conflicts. In arguing for answer
B, one could say that everyone has some significant unresolved conflicts. That may be
true, but even if it is true there is no reason to think that the client's devaluations at the
time of termination are an indication of those unresolved conflicts. In most cases, the
most likely reason for the devaluing is described in answer A. D is incorrect because the
devaluing expected of a person with borderline personality disorder would have likely
shown up earlier, and would not simply be triggered by a specific event like termination.

51. The correct answer is A. Experimental neurosis is what happens when the subject in
a study is punished for exercising either one of two options when only two options are
available. The term could also apply in situations where the subject is rewarded for
exercising either option. B is false because, even though double bind communication was
once postulated as the cause of schizophrenia, this hypothesis has not withstood the test
of time and empirical study. There is no particular association between double bind
communication and either Southeast Asian cultures or multiple personality disorder.

52. The correct answer is C. A is false because, even though it might be a good idea to
discuss the referral with the resource before presenting it to the client in some cases, this

does not usually need be done. B is false because, even though it might also be a good
idea to visit a resource, it is often logistically impossible in the real world. Most marriage
and family therapists have better things to do with their time. D is false because the

therapist has no way of knowing whether or not the referral resource will be effective for
the client in question. The therapist should let the client know why the resource is

appropriate to the client's needs and preferences to enhance the chances of the client
engaging with the referral resource.

53. The correct answer is C. Although the AAMFT Code of Ethics allows for barter in

payment for marriage and family therapy services under certain circumstances, the code
does not permit bartering if the professional relationship would be distorted. The code
also prohibits providing services that create a conflict of interest that may impair work
performance or clinical judgment. The kind of barter arrangement described in this
question could distort the professional relationship and constitute a conflict of interest.

This is an especially problematic type of barter relationship, or dual relationship, in which
services are offered in payment. A is incorrect because your decision to exclude the uncle
from sessions may be influenced by your desire to receive his services. Also, even if you
believe he does not need to be involved in sessions now, as a live in member of a troubled
family, the need for his participation might arise at any time. B is incorrect because the
family members do not have the authority to relieve you of your ethical obligations. D is

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS I Page 79

 

incorrect because the concept of "incapacity to make informed decisions" applies to
exceptionally impaired individuals suffering from conditions such as dementia or acute

episodes of psychosis, not to members of troubled families.

54. The correct answer is D. The primary purpose of play therapy is to give a person the
opportunity to express thoughts and feelings through action, not only words. This can
benefit some clients, both as an assessment technique and as a treatment technique. A is

incorrect because play therapy can be used with a person of any age who can benefit hom
such nonverbal expression. B is incorrect because even a verbal child may have certain
thoughts and feelings that can best be expressed through the action and interaction of

play. C is incorrect because, even though a parent or guardian does need to give
permission for treatment in most cases, the parent or guardian does not need to give
permission for every specific technique used in the course of treatment.

55. The correct answer is A. All four clients are at risk. The middle aged male who is
living alone is at highest risk. Relative to that individual, the 19 year old female is at less
risk because of her gender and age. Also note that she wants to kill herself to influence
another person's feelings, not because she wants to die. The 43 year old male (C) is at

less risk because he is living with a significant other. The 44 year old female (D) is at
less risk because of gender. Also note that she is frightened by her suicidal thoughts. She

does not welcome them as a way of resolving a difficult life problem.

56. The correct answer is A. The therapist, the therapist's agency, and (on behalf of the
agency) the agency's board of directors owns the physical record, not the information in it.

57. The correct answer is D. Notice the word "not" in the question. A is incorrect
because, if the consent is coerced, it is submission and not consent. B is incorrect
because, if the client does not have accurate information, the consent is not informed
consent. C is incorrect because, if the client is unable to understand and reason about the

decision, the consent is not informed. If the informed consent is not documented,

however, it is still informed consent. Some employers might require documentation, and
it is always a good practice to document the informed consent. But the other three
response options are principles of law more fundamental than an agency's requirements of
staff or "good practice."

58. The correct answer is B. This answer is based on the well known Holmes and Rahe
Scale for assessing the severity of psychosocial stressors. The only stressor with a higher
rating than divorce is the death of a spouse (not one of the response options for this

question).

59. The correct answer is B. A is ruled out by the fact that the parents say they "don't

understand." An empathic response implies deep understanding. C is ruled out because
there is no specific indication of mixed messages. D is a possible answer because trying

to cheer someone up can be supportive. However, in this case it is apparently being done

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 80 . MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

in a way that fails to accept (denies) the child's sense of sadness and loss. That is not
supportive.

60. The correct answer is C. Almost all individuals who have limb amputations
experience some degree of phantom limb syndrome, that is, feeling as if the limb were
still there. The likelihood of low self-esteem or disturbed object relations will depend on
the client’s personality. Low self-esteem or disturbed object relations are possible after
an amputation but not as likely as phantom limb syndrome. Cognitive dissonance is only
tangentially related to this situation.

61. The correct answer is C. Competition, winning and losing are all features of the
Oedipal or Electra Complex. According to classical Psychoanalytic and Ego Psychology
theory this arises during the third stage of development, approximately ages 3 or 4
through 6.

62. The correct answer is A. This client's description suggests borderline personality
disorder. Some therapists have specialized training in depth psychotherapy techniques (B
through D) with borderline clients, but most do not. Those therapists might use
interpretation or confrontation. In most cases, however, the inner turmoil of the
borderline personality disorder is best approached with reality oriented therapy.
Generally, the treatment objectives will be focused on reality problem resolution rather
than personality reconstruction. As with all questions, it is best to give the answer that
would be true for most marriage and family therapists, even though exceptions may exist.

63. The correct answer is C. This client's description suggests panic attacks. A, B, or D
could conceivably be related to panic attacks, but the relationship is more remote than it

is with hyperthyroidism. Note that hypothyroidism can also be associated with anxiety,
but is more often associated with depression.

64. The correct answer is A. B is incorrect because double bind communication is not .
etiologically related to schizophrenia, as once thought. If it is an issue at all for a
particular client, it is likely to be so only as a peripheral issue. Interpreting delusional
themes (C) is contraindicated in schizophrenia. It could precipitate inner turmoil,
confusion and decompensation. Meeting the client's housing needs (D) is a true answer

but it is not the best answer. Not all clients with schizophrenia will need help with
housing, whereas all clients with schizophrenia will need help with reality problem
solving (A). Also note that reality problem solving includes housing needs among many

other possible needs.

65. The correct answer is A. Sundowner syndrome, a feature of organic dementia, is
apparently due to the greater attention to intemal stimuli when worldly distractions are
reduced in the evening. No explanation, however, has been empirically confirmed.

66. The correct answer is C. A is false because conflict will be inevitable at this stage

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 81

 

and does not need to be encouraged. B is false because if conflict is suppressed it will not
be worked through to resolution. D is false because group members need to discover and
establish their own leadership hierarchies. This is one of the positive outcomes of the
exploring and testing phase of group development.

67. The correct answer is D. It's important to note the words “first” and “initial
session” in the question's stem. Answers A through C are geared to actively helping the
client change before getting to know what the problem really is, what changes are needed,
and before establishing the kind of therapeutic relationship that would make these active
change oriented techniques effective. First, time is needed for engaging and assessing.

That includes observing the client.

68. The correct answer is C. A is not a good answer because your client may not be able
to determine when her daughter is clean and sober and when she is not. But she will be

able to determine whether or not her daughter has paid the rent and engaged in acceptable
behavior (as is called for in C). B encourages the client to take responsibility for the way

her 26 year old daughter lives her life, thereby reinforcing the existing problem of
codependency. D is not a good answer because your client needs to learn to manage her
life and the consequences of her daughter's behavior as it affects her life. C will do that

directly. D might not do that at all. Besides, there is probably no way your client will
ever know how much of her daughter’s dysfunctional behavior is due to her parenting
behavior, to other childhood caretakers, to genetic predisposition, to society's norms and
values, to chance encounters with drugs, or to her daughter’s personal choice and exercise
of free will.

69. The correct answer is A. B is a poor answer because Mrs. Roth's need for treatment

is not simply dependent on her daughter's need for treatment. C is a poor answer for two
reasons; the dynamic source of a problem is never resolved in most cases and such a

character restructuring goal seems out of proportion to the way the problem was initially
described, with a focus on practical living arrangements and the day to day mother-
daughter relationship. D is a poor answer because her feeling of being ready to terminate
could arise as a resistance to change or she might enjoy the therapeutic relationship and
never feel ready to terminate. A links termination to a specific and reasonable goal for

this case.

70. The correct answer is B. A is false because most people would not have a reasonable
suspicion of abuse based on the limited information in the stem. C is false because it
would imply divulging a client's identity before having the reasonable suspicion that gives
a therapist permission to divulge an identity. D is false because you only need a
reasonable suspicion, not clear evidence of abuse to warrant making a report. B is

correct because it expresses exactly what California law requires.

71. The correct answer is B. Explanation is the technique described in A. Challenging a
person to engage in socially appropriate or constructive behavior (C) is what we often

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 82 A MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

mean when we use the term "confrontation" colloquially, but not as a psychotherapeutic
technique. Technically, confrontation means making the client aware of inconsistencies;
for example, inconsistencies within his or her perceptions, or between perceptions and
objective facts, or between his/her verbal and non-verbal communication. D is incorrect
because you can offer support to a client, even while making the client aware of
inconsistencies.  

72. The correct answer is D. The AAMFT Code of Ethics prohibits discrimination on
the basis of sexual orientation and makes no exceptions. A and B are incorrect because it
is unethical to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation in the course of providing
professional assistance, regardless of one’s religion or ethnic culture. C is incorrect
because an MFT’s training should enable the individual to work with a diverse caseload
of clients. If an MFT lacks training in a specialized aspect of practice that is associated
with sexual orientation or any other human diversity issue, the MFT may not provide
service on the grounds that the required service is outside of one’s scope of competence.
But this question is not about a specialized aspect of practice. It is about providing
services to a diverse range of potential clients, and it is about discrimination. Actions
legitimately taken on the grounds of scope of competence do not constitute
discrimination.

73. The correct answer is B. This fact is reported by Jean Piaget, and confirmed by many
others.

74. The correct answer is B. This requirement is set forth in Business and Professions
Code Section 4996.13. A and C are incorrect because they describe a consultation

relationship, not supervision. D is incorrect because the Associate may be employed by
you and, in a private practice, must be employed by you.

75. The correct answer is D. Notice the word "except" in the question. All three points -
- A through C -- are well established in both General Systems Theory and Social Systems
Theory. D, however, is incorrect because all systems need a mechanism for social
control, that is, for maintaining a pattern of roles and norms.

76. The correct answer is C. Notice the word "except" in the question. Cohesion (A) is a
key to promoting positive change. Open airing of conflict and crisis (B) are an essential
aspects of group development that makes cohesion possible. Clarity and consensus of
purpose (D) also lead to, and result from, cohesion. A fluid dominance hierarchy,
however, arrests group development and leaves members with an insecure sense of chaos.

77. The correct answer is C. Notice the word "least" in this question. Domestic violence
perpetrators commonly buy into polarized sex role stereotypes. A more balanced
androgynous sex role self-image reduces the risk of acting out the more destructive
elements of a stereotypical male role. Undifferentiated self-concept (A) is a sign of poor
ego functioning and leaves a person vulnerable to anxiety, as does an overwhelming sense

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET "PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 83

 

of guilt(B). It is best to feel guilt but not be overwhelmed by it. In a domestic violence
perpetrator such anxiety is likely to be acted out in further violence. Ifthe family blames
the victim (D) the perpetrator will feel a sense of permission, or even expectation to act
out, and risk is increased. C is the only factor listed that would decrease risk.

78. The correct answer is A. Notice the word "least" in this question. C and D are
classic symptoms of depression. B is often associated with depression when it is coupled

with anxiety. Hyperventilation (A) is associated with anxiety, not depression.

79. The correct answer is A. A person will only follow the modeling of someone with
whom he or she identifies. Interpretation can be accepted from anyone with credibility,
whether we identify with them or not. Effective communication happens all the time
between people with or without mutual identification. Introjection is a subconscious
process that is independent of the more conscious and highly developed ego function of
identification.

80. The correct answer is B. A is false because, even though the client should participate
in and agree to the service plan, the client should not determine it. The client is only one
of several parties who may have a legitimate interest in the service plan. Others are the
therapist, the agency, and third party payors. C is false because it presumes too much.
Not all clients have a need to improve self-esteem. D is false because there is no optimal
number of objectives that applies to all cases. B is a basic principle of treatment
planning.

81. The correct answer is B. Note the words "should not" in the question. A should be
said because it normalizes the problem and helps the child overcome the sense that she is
alone with her problem. C and D are the kinds of questions that may be needed to gather
important assessment information. You should be careful with statements like C because
it could be a leading question. However, it would not be a leading question if the child
first told you that her father "said things that made me afraid to tell." B should not be said
in any case because the therapist has no basis for giving this kind of reassurance.

Whether or not the father goes to jail is a matter out of the therapist’s hands.

82. The correct answer is A. Why questions about underlying motivations call for

cause-effect inferences about something very abstract. Few of us can answer such -
questions with valid and reliable information (B). C is false because such questions, like

any questions, may or may not reflect the interviewer's countertransferences. D is
incorrect because "why" questions may or may not focus on affect. A is correct because,
in our culture, we often challenge a person's behavior with rhetorical "why" questions.

For example, "Why must you be so..." "Why don't you ever...." This commonly
provokes a defensive response.

83. The correct answer is D. Notice the word "except" in the question. Keep in mind
that the purpose of your interview is to determine the circumstances of a situation. A and

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 84 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

C will lead the client to tell you what you are wanting or expecting to hear, not the facts.
B will be confusing. Open ended questions, on the other hand, do not lead the client into
any particular answer and they leave the client free to say as much or as little as they find
necessary.

84. The correct answer is D. Notice the word "except" in the question, and note that
diagnosable pedophilia is a paraphilia. D is not a true statement because either regressed
or fixated pedophiles may use primitive defenses when sexually aroused. A through C
are true statements by definition. In the fixated pedophile, unlike the regressed pedophile,
the primary sexual orientation is to children, not agemates. Their pedophilia is a
persistent quality of their character, not a reaction to stress. Their pedophilic interests are
persistent &om childhood or adolescence, as with the personality disorders.

85. The correct answer is A. Organic dementia and clinical depression (a mood disorder)
often look similar in the elderly. There is no particular connection between organic
dementia and the other three response options.

86. The correct answer is A. Under the COMIA law the person requesting the .
information must specifically describe the information being requested, its specific
intended use, and the fact that it will not be used for any purpose other than its intended
use. B is incorrect because the person making the request is not required to reveal their
credentials to the client and, in fact, doesn’t even need to have any formal credentials. C
is incorrect because the written request must state how long the information will be kept,
but there is no requirement that it must state the date by which the information must be
received in the first place. D is incorrect because California’s COMIA law does not refer
to HIPAA, and the person receiving the information might not even be a covered entity

under HIPAA. For example, an attorney receiving confidential psychotherapy
information is not covered by HIPAA and would not be bound to use and protect the

information in the same way that a health care provider would under HIPAA.

87. The correct answer is A. B requires the client to make a judgment about what is a
serious attempt. The client's standard for this and your own (or any two clients‘
standards) might be very different. D is incorrect because "why" questions generate
defensiveness and abstract answers, not reliable and valid information. A simply calls on
the client to describe their previous behavior. It does not call on the client to make a

judgment about the behavior's significance. The interviewer can then rate the degree of
risk using a standardized instrument or assessment framework.

88. The correct answer is A. Note the words "least likely" in the stem. Thought
blocking most often occurs in the middle of a thought (or sentence), not at the beginning.
Therefore, it is the least likely answer. B is incorrect because depression can cause a

delayed response to a question because of psychomotor retardation. C is incorrect
because obsessive compulsiveness can cause a delay as the individual seeks the perfect
thing to say before saying it. D is incorrect because low self-esteem's shyness and fear of

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 85

ridicule or rejection can delay the answers to question.

89. The correct answer is A. You should respect confidential information shared by
colleagues in the course of their professional relationships and transactions. B is '
incorrect for the reason that A is correct. C is incorrect because the confidentiality of
information is not limited to derogatory information. It applies to any information
received from a client or colleague about a client. D is incorrect because neither you nor
your colleague should be contacting the client about this issue. If you were to contact the
client it could. damage the trusting relationship between the client and your colleague.
Your colleague should not seek the client's consent because such action would involve a
dual relationship. Your colleague's purpose with this client is to help her resolve her
psychosocial problems and achieve her treatment goals and objectives, not to develop an

agency's board of directors.

90. The correct answer is C. Flight of ideas (A) is a nearly continuous flow of
accelerated speech with abrupt changes from topic to topic. These abrupt changes are not

reflected here. B is false because there is no evidence of a commonly recognized false

fixed belief, firmly held despite being presented with evidence to the contrary. The
thinking is illogical, however. The speaker's premises may be presumed to be true.

However, there is no logical connection between working hard, paying taxes, and paying
premiums regularly on the one hand, and being entitled to see a doctor immediately on
the other hand. Even if we think that this should be true, it is not. Being entitled to see a
doctor immediately is determined by the doctor's availability, the relative urgency of the
problem, the needs of others who are waiting to see the doctor, and other logistical
factors. D is incorrect because ideas of reference refer to the assumption that other people

are doing What they are doing or saying what they are saying because of oneself.

91. The correct answer is B. A is false because the individual is staying on a topic. C is
false because there is no evidence of being derailed in the middle of a thought. The
individual's thoughts hold together to make a point, but it is a patently false point. D is
incorrect because hallucinations involve perception, not thinking.

92. The correct answer is B. Hearing a voice that is not present in reality is an
hallucination. It is not a delusion. A delusion is a false belief, not a false sensory
experience. C is incorrect because it is not an illusion which refers to a distortion of a
sensory experience that is based on a reality stimulation. D is incorrect because it is not

an idea of reference which, like a delusion, is a thought, not a perception. See the
glossary in the Diagnostic Manual of Mental Disorders for more information.

93. The correct answer is B. Note the words "most likely" in the question. These are the
classic symptoms of neglect, characterized by the reactive attachment disorder of

childhood. Physical or sexual abuse can produce these symptoms, but are more likely to
lead to anxiety and acting out. Exposure to lead (D) is more likely to cause cognitive

deficits.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 86 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

94. The correct answer is B. Flexibility in relationships is the key to healthy object
relations, whether or not a person has insight into their unconscious (A). C is false
because it refers to the ego function of impulse control, not object relations. D is false
because healthy object relations is a matter of the quality, not quantity, of one's social
relationships. Be sure that you didn't miss this one simply because it is the fourth
question in a row where B was the correct answer. The pattern of letters that indicate
correct answers is entirely random. Each question should be taken on its own.

95. The correct answer is A. Note the word "probably" (i.e. statistically most likely) in
the question. This question describes a depersonalization experience. Seventy percent of
all individuals have experienced depersonalization at some time in their lives, usually in
adolescence or young adulthood. This is not a psychotic symptom (B). Note the words
"as if“ in the stem. If this were an hallucination or delusion (a true psychotic symptom),
that "as if“ quality would not be there. C is false because "demented" refers to a deficit in
cognitive functioning. D is false because confabulation refers to fabricating information
to compensate for cognitive dysfunction. See the Glossary in the Diagnostic Manual of
Mental Disorders for more information.

96. The correct answer is D. Intermittent reinforcement, the pattern described in D, has
been empirically demonstrated to cause the most stable and long lasting behavior change.
A will lead to more rapid extinction of the learned behavior whenever the reward regimen

is terminated. B will lead to desirable behavior every fifth time chores are at issue, with a
slacking off in between. C (interval reinforcement) weakens the connection between the
reward and the desired behavior.

97. The correct answer is A. Motivation wanes during the middle phase as the client

retreats to a flight into health, other resistance arise, and the support of the therapeutic
context eases the anxiety that motivated change in the first place. B and C are more likely

to be issues in the initial phase of therapy. D, goal attainment scaling, can arise during
treatment planning but it is too narrow, too specific an issue, when compared to the
broader, more significant issue of enhancing motivation. Therefore, it doesn’t require a

“strategy.”

98. The correct answer is D. Note the words "most likely" in the question. Termination
can frustrate a client's sense of dependency on the therapist and on the therapeutic
context. It is often associated with a sense of rejection. Crises can arise at any other time
during therapy, but they are most directly and most likely precipitated by termination.
These statements would be true for depressed clients and other clients as well.

99. The correct answer is A. All aspects of treatment should be therapeutic. This
question only asks about when therapeutic change can begin to happen. It is not asking
when therapeutic change is most likely, or most significant. Although individualized

intervention strategies are usually implemented following the development of a treatment
plan, techniques involved in the development of a therapeutic relationship and the

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS . Page 87

provision of support are a form of generalized treatment applicable to almost all
clients during the engagement phase.

100. The correct answer is A. The client's behavior is a common way of manifesting
resistance in long term, open ended therapy. The literature on crisis intervention and brief
therapy usually notes the importance of specifying a limited time frame (A) in order to
mobilize energy for therapeutic change. B through D can also be used to mobilize
change, or not, but they are more peripherally related to the issue. C, use of role play,
neither mobilizes nor inhibits a client's motivation for change. A is directly related to the
issue of mobilizing energy for change.

101. The correct answer is D. Notice the word "except" in the question. An illusion is a
sensory perceptual distortion, not a distorted belief or assumption. Transference involves
displacement, so both A and B are true. If neither the mother nor the therapist are
authoritarian and harsh, yet the client perceives both of them that way, this is likely to be
a projection (C).

102. The correct answer is B. Accurate empathy is a matter of insightful understanding.
That is the quality described here. Unconditional positive regard (A) and genuineness (C)
refer to more general qualities of the relationship. Codependency (D) has little to do with
the question. Codependency is much more likely to involve dysfunctional
communication and projection, not sensitive understanding.

103. The correct answer is D. A is a poor choice because the client is not struggling with

understanding guilt. He is struggling with a problem in his life that he needs to resolve.
Note that the question's stem does not say that the client is disabled by guilt, only that his

guilt is severe. B is a poor choice because the client needs to self-determine a resolution.
C is a poor choice because it potentially derails the client's own process of working

through the problem and reaching a personally satisfying resolution. D is the best choice
because it gives the client a chance to self-explore and work through his thoughts and
feelings to a point of resolution.

104. The correct answer is B. A contract should always address mutual role
expectations. A is false because a treatment contract does not need to be signed by a third
party. C is false because a contract should only address suicidal behavior in those cases
where it is an issue. In other words, C might be a correct answer in some cases, but B is
the correct answer in all cases. D is incorrect because either party may write the contract,
as long as both agree to it.

105. The correct answer is A. This question relates to Structural Family Therapy. The
coalition of parents should have an unequal and greater share of power, that is, more

power than any other combination of individuals in the family. B is false because

children, with their relatively less developed ego functions and life experience, should not
have power greater than that of the parents. C is false because neither parent should be

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 88 T MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

dominant over the other. D is false because children, with their relatively less developed
ego functions and life experience, should not have power equal to that of the parents.
Besides, it would be unrealistic to think that children could have power equal to that of
their parents. Parents have greater personal and material resources, as well as legal rights

within the family. 

106. The correct answer is C. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “In the context of
couple, family or group treatment, the therapist may not reveal any individual’s R
confidences to others in the client unit without the prior written permission of that
individual.” A is incorrect because the therapist may only reveal such information with a
written consent. B is incorrect even though this would be a true statement if each
participating family member agreed to a “no secrets” policy in writing. But answer B
doesn’t specify that the “no secrets” policy is agreed to in writing. B is also incorrect
because a therapist may reveal confidences with prior written permission of the

individual, even if there is not a “no secrets” policy. D is incorrect because prior written
permission is required whether or not the revelation serves a therapeutic purpose.

107. The correct answer is D. D expresses a basic principle of Systems Theory applied
to case management. Differentiated roles in a social system always require some form of
coordination. This holds true whether or not a physician is on the team (A), whether or

not the team is multidisciplinary (B), and regardless of funding (C).

108. The correct answer is A. Clarification establishes an accurate and intelligible
understanding of the facts so that an interpretation's inferences will be grounded in reality.
Ventilation (B) can be a true answer but it is not as directly related to interpretation in the
literature on technique as is clarification. The rich array of thoughts, experiences and

feelings that might be expressed through ventilation will require some degree of
clarification before the client’s revelations can be interpreted. Behavioral rehearsal (C) is
not related to interpretation and psychodynamic insight (D) is more likely to be seen as
the result of interpretation, not a preparation for it.

109. The correct answer is B. Persons with any personality disorder might be prone to
experiencing a psychotic symptom under extreme stress. Note that this does not change
their diagnosis to a psychotic diagnosis.

110. The correct answer is A. According to Penal Code Section 11165.1 c "sexual
exploitation includes preparing, selling, or distributing obscene matter depicting a minor
engaged in obscene acts,” but not possession of such matter. Therefore B and C are
incorrect. D is incorrect because the law prohibits any person responsible for a child's
welfare from knowingly permitting or encouraging the child to engage in prostitution or a
live performance involving obscene sexual conduct. Sexual exploitation also includes
developing, duplicating, printing or exchanging any film, photograph, videotape, negative
or slide in which a child is engaged in an act of obscene sexual conduct, except when
such activities are done for purposes of law enforcement and prosecution.

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 89

  .

111. The correct answer is D. Obsessions and compulsions are ego dystonic thoughts
and behaviors, respectively. They are associated with obsessive compulsive disorder, an
anxiety disorder, not with the obsessive compulsive personality disorder. The personality
disorder involves perfectionism, preoccupation with details, indecisiveness,
overconscientiousness, and restricted expression of affect. These are personality traits
associated with obsessiveness and compulsiveness, but they are not true ego dystonic
thoughts and behaviors. Besides, the personality disordered individual is likely to find

their behavior pattern to be ego syntonic. A

112. The correct answer is B. Note the word "except" in the question. Even in crisis, a
client's goals are left to self-determination. If advice is to be given at all (for example,
under the conditions reflected in A, C and D) it should be focused on helping the client

work out the means to their own ends. A

113. The correct answer is D. Purpose determines many things in groups. It determines
composition as well as structure. Answers A through C could be true in some cases, but

D is a fundamental principle of group dynamics and group work.

114. The correct answer is A. Note the word "except" in the question. A is false because
it is impossible. Verbal messages are always accompanied by nonverbal messages.

115. The correct answer is C. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and
family therapists, when consulting with colleagues or referral sources, do not share
confidential information that could reasonably lead to the identification of a client...unless
they have obtained the prior written consent of the client....” A and B are incorrect

because the client’s prior written consent is required regardless of the consultant’s
confidentiality standards. D is incorrect because the client does not need to be present at

the consultation if prior written consent has been given.

116. The correct answer is C. Note the word "except" in the question. Selection of
treatment modalities should follow the assessment, not the engagement phase of therapy.

117. The correct answer is B. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and
family therapists do not give to or receive from clients (a) gifts of substantial value or (b)
gifts that impair the integrity or efficacy of the therapeutic relationship.” A is incorrect
because gifts may be given to clients if they do not have substantial value and do not
impair the integrity or efficacy of the therapeutic relationship. C is incorrect because
even a gift of little material value might still be one that impairs the integrity or efficacy
of the therapeutic relationship. D is incorrect because the therapist should neither give

nor receive a gift of substantial value from a client.

118. The correct answer is A. B is false because we all have some degree of
responsibility for our problems. C is false because, even though you know that an

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 90 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

attainable solution is possible, you have no way of knowing that it will be achieved. D is
false because many clients need help to resolve their problem.

119. The correct answer is B. Virtually all people, not only those who are deceptive or
previously exploited, will feel some degree of sexual attraction to their therapist, simply

because of the inherent intimacy of the relationship. This is also true of any close
personal relationship.

120. The correct answer is D. The AAMFT Code of Ethics requires that two years must
elapse before engaging in sexual intimacy with a former client. After that time the
therapist still has a burden to demonstrate that there has been no exploitation or injury to
the former client or to the client’s immediate family. A is incorrect because, in addition
to termination of the relationship two years must elapse. B is incorrect because sexual
intimacy is not permanently prohibited with former clients. C is incorrect because the

required duration is two years, not one year, following termination of therapy or the last
professional contact.

121. The correct answer is A. B is false because homeostasis occurs in both functional
and dysfunctional families. C is false because a dominant parental coalition is a sign of a

functional family. D is false because functional families use social control to maintain
stable roles and norms.

122. The correct answer is C. This family dysfunction may involve enmeshment and

disengagement, but that's not what is being described here. The question's stem describes
a family whose reality is changing but its way of behaving is not. The family is trying to

maintain the structure it had before the younger brother was born. It has been unable to
adapt to his arrival.

123. The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. Fights, or
"mutual affray between minors," even when they result in injury, are not treated as child
abuse under the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Law. A is false because, although
neglect is defined separately from abuse for various purposes, when it occurs in out of
home care it is reportable as abuse. B is false because non-accidental infliction of
physical injury is defmed as child abuse. C is false because, even though justifiable
corporal punishment under certain conditions is permitted by California law, unjustifiable
corporal punishment is against the law under all conditions. i

124. The correct answer is A. Note the word "except" in the question. When referring to
an agency, neither you nor the client can determine which of the agency's staff members
will be assigned to the case. Focus on the purpose and function of the agency rather than
its individual staff. B is incorrect because most clients will have mixed feelings about
accepting any referral. By discussing these you and the client can work through any
unrealistic resistences. C and D are incorrect because these actions will enhance the
client's motivation and sense of hope about using the resource.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 91

 

125. The correct answer is B. A and C presume too much. A might be true in some

cases, but it is too rigidly stated to apply generally. Many problems need more than six
sessions to resolve. C is a poor choice because few clients ever fully achieve their goals

and objectives. B is true because it has been empirically demonstrated. Unlike A and C
it does not presume that most of the current clients’ needs have been met (an issue of
effectiveness), only that they can be discharged earlier than they might have otherwise
and still get significant gain. D is incorrect because research shows that properly
administered counseling and psychotherapy are effective.

126. The correct answer is D. Note the word "except" in the question. Somatization is a
way of defending against or evading the problem. All of the other choices are ways of

resolving problems.

127. The correct answer is A. The AAMFT Code of Ethics Sec. 2.6 states “do not share
confidential information that could reasonably lead to the identification of a client...unless
(you) have obtained the prior written consent of the client... Information may be shared

only to the extent necessary to achieve the purposes of the consultation.” B is incorrect
because the client’s consent must be obtained in writing. C is incorrect because the

shared information must be specifically relevant to achieving the purpose of the
consultation. This consultation is specifically about differential diagnosis, not just any
aspect of the case. D is incorrect because you should only reveal information relevant to
achieving the purpose of the consultation, even if the client has given you permission to

reveal a broader range of information.

128. The correct answer is B. Note the word "except" in the question. A, C and D are
basic principles of crisis intervention. B violates the basic principle that crisis

intervention should not be used as a secondary approach to some other presumably more
effective approach. There are times when it would be appropriate to follow the course

described in B, but the other choices are always appropriate when practicing crisis
intervention.

129. The correct answer is C. A is false because nobody is free of ambivalence. B is
false because few clients have only a single issue when they seek any kind of therapy.
Brief therapy can accommodate multiple problems. If, however, a client does not have
the capacity to tolerate rapid involvement in a therapeutic alliance, the marriage and
family therapist using a brief therapy approach can exert little influence. If the client does
not have the capacity to tolerate rapid loss, termination will likely precipitate a stress
reaction that the therapist will not have time to work through with the client. D is

incorrect because nobody is free of ego defenses.

130. The correct answer is B. A is false because the duty to warn, often referred to as
The Tarasoff Decision, overrides the client's right to give consent. C is false because the

duty to warn applies even if the client was not previously instructed about it. C describes
what would be a good practice, but not a requirement. B, however, is required. It would 

Page 92 at MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

be destructive to violate a client's confidentiality and arouse the anxiety of a presumably
threatened third party on the basis of invalid information. D is incorrect because the duty
to warn applies to persons with any diagnosis, or even no diagnosis.

131. The correct answer is A. B is a possible answer, but only if the client has a personal
goal of achieving insight. Therefore, A is a more fundamentally true answer. Besides, if
a client defends against insight that the therapist is trying to develop but that is unrelated
to the client's purpose in therapy, "resistance" would not be the technically correct way to
define that defensiveness. Many people use the term "resistance" in the manner described
by C and D, but this is technically incorrect.

132. The correct answer is B. See AAMFT Code of Ethics which states that “Marriage
and family therapists assist persons in obtaining other therapeutic services if the therapist
is unable or unwilling, for appropriate reasons, to provide professional help.” This
standard alludes to the fact that terminations must be for appropriate reasons. Another
standard states that “Marriage and family therapists do not use their professional
relationships with clients to further their own interests.” Therefore, marriage and family
therapists should not terminate services to pursue a social, financial, or sexual
relationship with a client. Therefore, A is incorrect because the termination is being done
to further one’s own interests. Even though the client will have continued therapy
available, it could be detrimental to the client to interrupt a successful course of therapy

and begin again unnecessarily. C is incorrect because you may not enter into this
business relationship whether or not you believe the client's request represents a
resistence. D is incorrect because of the ethical standards stated above, and because it
implies a dual relationship. Because you have a personal financial incentive to terminate

you are not in a position to be an impartial judge regarding whether or not such a move
would further the client’s therapy goals.

133. The correct answer is C. D is probably the safest approach because it avoids even
the impression of impropriety. But it is an overstatement. It is permissible, however, to
pay another professional for consultative and administrative services. The fact that they
have referred a client to you does not render them ineligible to be compensated for their
services. In no circumstances may a practitioner pay another practitioner for making a
referral, regardless of the nature of the referral.

134. The correct answer is A. It is a dual relationship to be someone's therapist and
employer. This is unethical and will grossly interfere with maintaining the necessary
boundaries of the professional, therapeutic relationship.

135. The correct answer is A. Affective numbing (B) and denial (C) are more likely
during the initial stage of the disease process. D is a poor answer because suicide risk is

likely to increase, not decrease, during the midstage when the client's initial defenses are
giving way to reality's hard challenges. A good source for more information is Working

With AIDS, published by the U.C. San Francisco AIDS Health Project.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 93

136. The correct answer is B. There is no particular connection between the three
medical conditions listed here and either schizotypal symptoms (A) or depression (C).
Manic symptoms (D) are possible with excessive caffeine use, or with anything that
arouses anxiety, but they are not as directly related (especially to mitral valve prolapse) as

are panic symptoms.

137. The correct answer is D. A is false because the program isn't based on any
particular personality theory. B is false because the program is not affiliated with any
other organization. C is false because the program does not charge dues, even though
voluntary contributions are accepted from participating members. D expresses a

fundamental principle of twelve step programs.

138. The correct answer is A. Cocaine Anonymous, like other twelve step programs,

will not exclude a person because they are using a substance while engaged in the
program. That would mean excluding many individuals when they need the program

most. The program refers to a higher power but does not require belief in a higher
power, nor does it instruct members on what the term "higher power" should be taken to
mean. D is incorrect because members may develop a relationship with a sponsor while
attending meetings, but introduction by a sponsor is not a requirement for becoming a
member. Members are only expected to have a desire to stop using cocaine. I

139. The correct answer is D. Depression is commonly associated with most diagnoses,
and it is a prominent associated feature of the diagnoses listed as A, B, and C. However,
anxiety and not depression is the key feature in a specific phobia, and specific phobia has

no particular association with depression.

140. The correct answer is A. Such autonomy may threaten the husband's sense of power

and control. B is false because fathers in patriarchal cultures have the prerogative of
relating in a warm and playful manner, or distant and formal manner. C is false because

the involvement of godparents may not have any bearing on the patriarchal role
relationships between father, mother and other family members. Often both father and

mother welcome the godparents participation. D is false because children are generally
expected to form closer bonds with their mothers. This is not a threat to the father's

patriarchal position.

141. The correct answer is B. A is more related to physical, not psychic, numbing. C is
patently false with no basis in fact. D is incorrect because psychic numbing occurs in
PTSD whether or not a person uses substances. B is true by definition.

142. The correct answer is B. "Inappropriate," in this context, has nothing to do with
values and social norms. Therefore, A is false. The condition described in C could

sometimes lead to inappropriate affect, but it will only be sometimes true, whereas B is a
better answer because it is always true by definition. D is false, again because
"inappropriate" in this context has nothing to do with social norms.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 94 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

143. The correct answer is A. B and C are false because none of us can choose or control

the outcome of our actions. We can only choose what our actions will be. The outcomes

depend on many factors beyond our control. D is false because genuineness is a personal
quality of the therapist, and even the therapist may not have control over this quality.

None of us can choose another person's level of genuineness.

144. The correct answer is D. Confabulation is the fabrication of facts or events in
response to questions about situations or events that are not recalled because of memory
impairment. A is false because malingering involves an intentional manipulation
designed to achieve a specific objective. There is no evidence of that here. B is false
because this is not a factitious disorder. This client has a true dementia. He is using
confabulation to fill in the gaps of his memory loss, but this confabulation is a specific
symptom, not a syndrome, as in the case of factitious disorder. Also, factitious disorders
are initiated with some sense of voluntary intent. Not so with confabulation. C is
incorrect because confabulation is not intentionally deceptive.

145. The correct answer is D. The statement focuses on an inference about what is on
other people's minds. This is more a matter of belief than perception, therefore it is not
an hallucination. The words "feel as if‘ and “seem to” suggest this is not a delusion, a

firmly held, fixed belief (B). An illusion (C) is a distorted perceptual experience. It is
ruled out for the same reason that A is ruled out.

146. The correct answer is B. A and C are false because B is true. D is false because
personality disorder symptoms tend to become more dysfunctional under stress.

147. The correct answer is B. Compulsive use pattern, tolerance, and withdrawal are the
three key features of substance dependence, as defined in the DSM. A, C and D are false
because these are all criteria from the DSM definition of substance abuse. The fourth
criterion for substance abuse is continued use despite having persistent or recurrent social
or interpersonal problems as a result of the effects of the substance.

148. The correct answer is B. Penal Code Section 27 3 (d) prohibits a person from
inflicting upon a child "any cruel or inhuman corporal punishment or injury resulting in a
traumatic condition." A is incorrect because corporal punishment is permitted if it is not
cruel or inhuman and does not inflict traumatic injury. C is incorrect because cruel or
inhuman corporal punishment is illegal, even if the child's caretaker thought it was in the

child's best interest. D is incorrect because even a parent may not inflict cruel and
inhuman corporal punishment.

149. The correct answer is A. The object concept develops during infancy which is also
the stage of trust vs. mistrust (also known as the oral stage).

150. The correct answer is D. Under California law, marriage and family therapists and
other psychotherapists are prohibited from "paying, accepting, or soliciting any

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009
MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 95


consideration, compensation, or remuneration, whether monetary or otherwise, for the
referral of professional clients." Violation of this prohibition is a form of unprofessional

conduct for which the penalty is suspension or revocation of one's license. A, B and C
are each incorrect because the law does not allow for any exceptions.

151. The correct answer is B. Such mandates apply to the individual practitioner and not
the agency. Therefore the agency does not have the authority to prevent a practitioner
from meeting their obligations under the law. A is incorrect because it is unnecessary and

because it will likely lead to friction and distrust by virtue of having violated the
organization's chain of command. C is incorrect because the individual practitioner is
responsible to report regardless of the agency's direction. D is incorrect because the law
described in the question refers to the practitioner's reasonable suspicion. The reporting
mandate does not depend on the supervisor having a reasonable suspicion.

152. The correct answer is C. To develop cohesion, groups need to air their conflicts,

especially during the developmental stage known as "exploring and testing." As group
members work out resolutions to conflicts they build relationships and a set of mutually

understood roles and norms in which they feel a sense of common ownership. A is

incorrect because this approach contributes to subgrouping and fragmentation, not
cohesion. B is incorrect for the same reason A is incorrect. D is incorrect because this

approach suppresses opportunities to work through conflicts and develop mutually.
satisfying resolutions. Only when conflicts are deemed intractable might their

suppression be necessary in order to conserve energy for accomplishing tasks.

153. The correct answer is D. A is incorrect because it is not as complete an approach as
D. Case documentation and process notes leave room for the supervisee's selective

perceptions, memory lapses and either intentional or unintentional distortions. B is
incorrect because this approach violates the boundaries of the therapist's professional
relationship with the client. It is too intrusive. C is incorrect because it is not as
complete an approach as D. Some might think that direct observation should be ruled out

because of confidentiality issues, however, many clients will give their consent to a
supervisor sitting in. D is the best answer because it combines the benefits of A and C.

After sitting in on several sessions the supervisor can compare direct observations with

the supervisee's documentation of those same sessions. This will give the supervisor
insight into the degree of accuracy and patterns of distortion in the supervisee's case

recording.

154. The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because state law allows an individual to

charge whatever fee the free market will bear. C is incorrect because the law sets no
standard for level of experience other than defining the amount of experience required for

licensure. D is incorrect. There is no such requirement in state law.

155. The correct answer is A. The assumption that mental or behavioral dysfunctions are
due to unconscious fixations with early trauma is a core concept in psychoanalytic or


BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 96 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

psychodynamic theory. This has become a predominant conception among European
professionals and lay people alike. This assumption is not characteristic of Asian
cultures. The other three kinds of explanations -- social, moral, and organic -- are more
common, at least among lay members of the culture. Therefore, B, C, and D are
incorrect. Note, however, that mental health professionals of non-European cultures are
likely to accept psychodynamic conceptions of mental health and mental illness.

156. The correct answer is C. Although the law only applies to clients of social workers
"when he or she is engaged in applied psychotherapy of a nonmedical nature" it grants
this privilege to clients of psychologists and MFT's without such a condition. A is
incorrect because the privilege applies whether or not the MFT informs the client about it.
B is incorrect because this limitation only applies to LCSW’s. D is incorrect because
diagnosis is explicitly covered under the privileged communication law.

157. The correct answer is B. Susto is a mental health problem. It is not considered to
be normal or healthy behavior either in the Latino community or in the general multi-
cultural community. A is incorrect because many mental health problems follow culture
specific patterns. Consider, for example, anorexia nervosa which is a symptom pattern
associated with Western industrial societies. Also, if A were true then a mental disorder
diagnosis could not be given to an American client who refers to his condition as a
"nervous breakdown." C is incorrect because it fails to accept another person's cultural
beliefs. You have no more grounds for proving that soul loss is not the cause of the I
person's symptoms than they have for proving that it is. This is not an empirical, factual
matter. D is incorrect for the same reason that A is incorrect.

158. The correct answer is B. Note the word "except" in the question. The "holder of
the privilege" refers to patients (when the individual does not have a guardian or

conservator), a patient's guardian or conservator, and "the personal representative of the
patient if the patient is dead." Psychotherapists are not "holders of the privilege."

Although a psychotherapist, like a holder of the privilege, may refuse to disclose
privileged communications, there are limitations to the exercise of this
option....limitations which do not apply to the holder of the privilege. For example, a

psychotherapist may not exercise the privilege if the holder of the privilege permits
disclosure or if a mandated report is required.

159. The correct answer is C. A is incorrect because most ethnic cultures are based in
folk culture and do not focus on diagnostic classifications of mental disorder. B is
incorrect because a person's motivations cannot usually be known by most others. There
may be instances where a person's otherwise inappropriate expression of emotion in any

ethnic culture is considered proper because the individual sought a culturally valued
purpose, but C is a better answer because it is more often true. The kind of emotional
expression which is considered proper varies according to social status, which in turn
Varies by gender, age, marital status, and socioeconomic status. D is incorrect because
most ethnic cultures have norms for proper expression of emotions which cannot be

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS L Page 97

 

superceded by an individual's preferences unless, of course, the individual is of an
exceptional social status.

160. The correct answer is B. Cultural identity is a psychological or psychosocial issue,
not a biological issue. It involves the cultural group that the individual identifies with,
pays attention to, and uses as a frame of reference for assessing his or her own interests,
values, action patterns and lifestyle. Therefore, A is incorrect. C is incorrect because the
degree of a person's involvement with a cultural community is a manifestation of the
individual's identification, attention, and interest in that community. Usually degree of
involvement reflects the level of support and gratification found in a particular social
network. D is incorrect because language preference reflects the individual's values and
cultural frame of reference. Note that racial heritage is related to one's cultural identity,
but it is the least relevant of the four issues presented in the question.

161. The correct answer is A. In social systems, socialization refers to the way in which
individuals are inducted into their social roles. It does not refer to recreational social
exchanges, the more common use of this term. Poor socialization leads to role conflict
and role confusion, a major source of stress on the job. B is incorrect because the stem of
the question gives no specific information about how well the new employee's
organization is oriented to its goals. C is incorrect because the question says that ground
rules (norms) are not well learned by new employees, but it says nothing about how these
norms are enforced. D is incorrect because the question does not refer to group
adaptation, a group's way of relating to its environment. '

162. The correct answer is A. The privilege also does not apply if the services of the
psychotherapist were sought to escape detection or apprehension after committing a crime
or tort. B is incorrect because the privilege may be exercised after a patient's death by
"the personal representative of the patient." C is incorrect because privileged
communication includes "information...transmitted between a patient and his
psychotherapist in the course of that relationship and in confidence..." The law does not
distinguish covered and uncovered content. D is incorrect because the patient may
believe that disclosure is not in his or her best interest, even when the psychotherapist
believes that disclosure is in the patient's best interest. Unless a mandated report or duty
to warn compels the disclosure of information, the psychotherapist must yield to the

patient's right to exercise the privilege.

163. The correct answer is A. During the early phases of building a group, members are

concerned about whether or not to stay and become a part of the group. By making
members aware of the group's importance and relevance to their needs the therapist can
help members make this important decision. B is incorrect because members of this kind
of group need to communicate directly with one another, not through the therapist. Even
though such communication may be chaotic at first, groups find ways of resolving the
chaos and bringing order by establishing roles and norms. C is incorrect because self
revelation is important in this kind of a group and conflicts need to be aired so that they

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 93 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

can be worked through. D is incorrect because the group's leaders should emerge
naturally through the group's own developmental processes. The natural leaders should

not be "selected" by the therapist. This would be much too controlling a role for the
therapist in this kind of a group. a

164. The correct answer is A. In a family, or any social system, structure refers to
predictable patterns of behavior that establish members‘ role relationships and exchange
of influence among themselves. B is incorrect because habits and character traits refer to
patterned behavior of individual personalities, not patterned interactions in social
systems. C is incorrect because these patterned exchanges of influence may serve the
family's goals but at other times may run contrary to the goals. In any case, the patterned
ways of interacting are not, in and of themselves, goal orientations. D is incorrect
because entropy refers to a social system's tendency toward chaos and disorder. It is
contrary to patterned ways of exchanging influence.

165. The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because during the pregroup orientation
phase the potential group members have not yet met one another. C is incorrect because
cohesiveness refers to the stage of group development that becomes possible after.

relationship patterns and roles have been established, not when they "begin to develop."

D is incorrect because problem solving becomes possible after cohesiveness is
established.

166. The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because in the forming stage of group
development the various members have not yet made a firm commitment within

themselves to remain in the group. They are not yet invested enough to struggle with the
issue of who is in control. This stage is more relevant to newly formed groups than to
family groups. C is incorrect because norming happens after a group has established
common understandings about who is in control; that is, after a group has done the work
of storming. That control hierarchy is then applied to the work of developing norms and
other role expectations. D is incorrect because performing refers to the family group's
focus on its primary task or tasks such as mutual support and enhancing child
development. This can only happen successfully after the dominance struggles have been
worked out.

167. The correct answer is C. Too much homogeneity means that group members are
likely to have similar world views, values and defensive patterns. They are likely to
reinforce one another's views rather than providing confrontation and novel perspectives.
Scapegoating, communication gaps and value conflicts, however, are the kinds of
problems that are more likely to happen in heterogeneous groups where members have
differing world views, values and/or defensive patterns.

168. The correct answer is B. The stem of the question presents several core principles
of the classical Crisis Intervention approach. A is incorrect because these principles are
not characteristic of a psychoanalytic approach which might be more likely to address

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 99
underlying personality problems even after the immediate presenting problem has been
resolved. C is incorrect because a behavioral approach may be problem focused in the
manner described in this question, but the concept of openness to change at times of crisis

is more characteristic of crisis intervention theory. D is incorrect because Gestalt
Therapy is an approach to psychotherapy that is not usually problem focused in the

manner described by the question.

169. The correct answer is C. In marriage and family therapy treatment planning should
always be a joint negotiation between therapist and client. A and B are incorrect because
they are too one sided. D is incorrect because there is no basis for assuming that the
differences between this therapist and client are irreconcilable. C suggests a way in

which they might well be reconciled.

170. The correct answer is D. Notice the word "least" in the question. Any of A, B or C
could explain this client's sexual acting out. Noncompliance with medications or
substance abuse could result in a loss of impulse control. It is also possible that the client
has been sexually assaulted (answer C) and is "identifying with the aggressor" by acting
out the kind of assault that he himself has experienced. But the diagnosis "mood disorder
with psychotic features" (D) cannot be present in a person with schizophrenia. These two

diagnoses are mutually exclusive in the DSM manual.

171. The correct answer is A. Open ended questions draw out information about a
client's life. That information is then clarified for accuracy and intelligibility. Then

interpretation seeks to get at the underlying dynamics. There is no particular connection
between the sequence in B. C is a poor choice because closed ended questions yield very
little information, hardly the grounds for meaningful interpretation. D is false for two
reasons. These issues are phases of a therapeutic process, not simply techniques, which
is what the question's stem is asking about. Also, the correct sequence for phases of a

therapeutic process is engagement, assessment, (treatment planning), then intervention.

172. The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because dysthymia requires that the person
be depressed "more days than not." Depressed mood most of the day nearly every day is
much more characteristic of major depressive disorder. C and D are correct because the
depression in these two conditions is not associated with any particular pattern of

frequency or duration.

173. The correct answer is C. A is incorrect because, even though persistent desire to cut

down on substance use is a symptom of chemical dependency, it is considered to be a
sign of a compulsive use pattern, not a reflection of needing increased amounts. B is
incorrect because a person may experience withdrawal -- characteristic psychological or

physical distress symptoms upon terminating or reducing substance use -- even without
tolerance. In other words, somebody who does not need to use increasing amounts may I
still experience withdrawal symptoms when he or she reduces the amount of use. D is
incorrect because substance induced disorders are specific symptom patterns (such as
Page 100   ‘ MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

delirium, sleep disturbance, or sexual dysfunction) that are caused by the physiological
effect of a drug.

174. The correct answer is A. B, C and D are incorrect because these symptoms may be
psychologically or psychosocially caused without any physiological dependence.

175. The correct answer is D. The AAMF T Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and
family therapists do not diagnose, treat, or advise on problems outside the recognized
boundaries of their competencies.” A is incorrect because any one of several depressive
disorders might substantially meet the criteria for dysthymia. Training in differential
diagnosis makes it possible to distinguish between closely related disorders which have
features in common. B is incorrect because, even though it is true that diagnosis of

mental disorders is within a marriage and family therapist’s legal scope of practice, it is
unethical to engage in a practice which is not within one’s scope of competence.

Similarly hypnosis, for example, is within an MFT’s scope of practice, but would only be
within the MFT’s scope of competence if he or she has been properly trained to practice
hypnosis. C is incorrect because you are responsible for your own professional
judgments. The other mental health professional might be mistaken, perhaps because he
or she has not been properly trained to formulate the diagnosis in question.

176. The correct answer is A. The “authentic self” refers to the way in which each
person is whole and real. Humanistic Existential Therapy emphasizes the insight that
arises through “direct experience” rather than cognitive, analytical understanding. That is
why B and C are incorrect. D is incorrect because, although exploration of deeper

emotions may be part of the therapeutic process of learning to directly experience the
authentic self, the decision regarding expression of these feelings to significant others is

left to each client. It is not the ultimate goal of the therapy approach.

177. The correct answer is D. These techniques promote self-discovery in an
experiential rather than intellectual/analytical manner. The aspects of experience which
are thereby revealed are then more amenable to integration. A is incorrect because

Humanistic Existential Therapy generally does not focus on the concept of skill building.
This is more of a Behavioral Therapy concept which would probably not be well suited to

the issue of peak experience. Peak experiences need to be allowed to happen, not made
to happen. B is incorrect because, even though clients of Humanistic Existential

Therapies may keep journals, they do not keep logs. A journal is written in narrative
form and is an aid in developing insight. A log is written in more of a list form with
ratings and is an aid in developing valid and reliable descriptions of behavior and

cognitions. C is incorrect because explanation is not commonly used in this therapy

approach, and the focus would more likely be on the peak experience itself, not on the
circumstances giving rise to the experience.

178. The correct answer is A. False identifications are the way in which a person comes
to identify with fragmented or partial aspects of himself or herself. B is incorrect because

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 101

 

the Fair Witness is the objective observer aspect of a person which has a full, unbiased,
and life enhancing view of reality as it is. C is incorrect because the transpersonal Self is
a deep and inclusive center of identity, deeper than the “personal self,” where
individuality and universality blend. It is a concept reminiscent of Jung’s archetypes and
universal unconscious. D is incorrect because the authentic self refers to the way in
which each of us is whole and real, not fragmented.

179. The correct answer is A. Therapists have a general duty to make an honest and full
disclosure to the client of all pertinent facts relative to clinical procedures. Use of
religious symbols in this manner constitutes a significant clinical procedure in the eyes of
most clients. B is incorrect because the stem of the question does not state that the

therapist is working for a government funded agency, therefore the state is not directly
involved. C is incorrect because this practice would not constitute a violation of one’s

scope of competence if the therapist is well informed about the nature of religious
symbols and is trained in the use of guided imagery. D is incorrect because gross
negligence refers to acts or omissions which fall grossly below the standard of conduct of
the profession; for example, encouraging a suicidal client to refrain from discussing her
suicidal thoughts with family and peers.

180. The correct answer is D. Section 4992.3 of the Business and Professions Code
states that licensure can be revoked or suspended for the following reason: “prior to
commencement of treatment, failing to disclose to the client or prospective client the fee
to be charged for professional services, or the basis upon which that fee will be
computed.” A is incorrect because the law does not establish guidelines for setting the
proper amount of a fee. B is incorrect because the law does not address this issue. Fees
may be collected prospectively if the client was informed of this practice and agreed to it

before the commencement of treatment. C is incorrect because rate schedules are not
required to be posted. The client only needs to be informed about the fee that has been

set for that individual, not fees or rates that are applied to others. The law does require
posting of one’s license, but not one’s fee schedule.

181. The correct answer is D. Sec. 4980.02of the California Business and Professions

Code, the law which authorizes MFT's to practice psychotherapy, states that "For the
purposes of this chapter, the practice of marriage and family therapy shall mean that
service performed with individuals, couples, or groups wherein interpersonal
relationships are examined for the purpose of achieving more adequate, satisfying, and
productive marriage and family adjustments." A is incorrect because does not require
that treatment be provided in reference to a mental disorder, even though most insurance
plans‘ medical necessity requirements do address this issue. B is incorrect because the
law defines MFT practice in relations to "individuals, couples, or groups..." C is incorrect
because the law does not address theoretical orientation. An eclectic orientation to

practice is acceptable under the law.

182. The correct answer is B. Parents are only liable if they participate in such treatment,

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 102 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS 

and then, only for the services rendered with their participation. A is incorrect because
minor consent is not acceptable for purposes of prescribing medication. C is incorrect
because the therapist is not required to include the minor’s parent or guardian in treatment
if such involvement would be inappropriate in the opinion of the therapist. Otherwise,
they are required to be involved in the treatment. D is incorrect because the minor could
continue to consent to treatment even if the parent or guardian seeks to terminate
treatment if the minor is mature enough to participate intelligently in the service, if the
minor would present a danger of serious harm to self or others without such treatment, or
if the minor is the alleged victim of incest or child abuse.

183. The correct answer is D. This is your reporting responsibility under the California
law regarding Duty to Warn, which is related to the Tarasoff Decision. A is incorrect
because a supervisor does not have the authority to approve or disapprove such a report
under the law. Your agency may require you to notify your supervisor, but not for the
purpose of obtaining approval. B is incorrect because the client does not have the
authority to prevent you from exercising your Duty to Warn. The client’s permission is
not necessary. C is incorrect because the question already states that you consider the
client’s threat to be a credible one. Also, the threat to kill another person could be
credible even if the client is making such a threat based on erroneous information about
the intended victim. D

184. The correct answer is C. Depressed individuals have been found to harbor
attributions that are global or general versus specific, internal versus external, and fixed
versus variable. For example, “I’m no good at anything (general) because I’m such a fool
(internal and fixed)” rather than “Sometimes (variable) I have difficulty learning new
things (more specific) if I’m not properly taught (external), and sometimes (variable) it’s
because I’m not interested in the subject matter (also more specific)” Therefore, A and B
are also incorrect. D is incorrect because the concepts of isolation and intimacy have not

been associated with depression or with Cognitive Therapy. They refer to the core
conflictual issues of young adulthood in Erik Erikson’s stages of development. That is,
intimacy versus isolation.

185. The correct answer is D. The issues addressed in answers A and B are relevant to
the comprehensive psychosocial assessment. The issue addressed in answer C is relevant
to the treatment planning process, which is primarily done after the assessment is
sufficiently complete. However, before either assessment or treatment planning can
proceed effectively, the client must become engaged in the helping relationship with the
therapist. Developing informed consent to treatment and a clear understanding of the
treatment process are important aspects of that initial engagement. To socialize the

individual into the role of client means to help the person become a client in relation to
the therapist. It means making clear the expectations of both roles.

186. The correct answer is D. Explaining treatment procedures is an aspect of the
engagement phase of treatment. It must be done before treatment procedures begin (C).

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 103

 

Answers A and B are aspects of a behavioral analysis.

187. The correct answer is B. By identifying the precise maladaptive behaviors to be
changed, you are helping the client to define the nature of the problem and laying the
groundwork for determining which adaptive behaviors need to be acquired to counteract
or replace the maladaptive ones. D is incorrect because the specific learning procedures
to be used will be determined by which adaptive behaviors need to be acquired. For
example, you would use different learning procedures to develop self assertion skills than
you would use to develop a state of relaxation in the presence of a phobic stimulus. A is
incorrect because behavioral contracting is a particular learning procedure. It should not
be confused with the engagement oriented development of the more general therapist-

client contract.

188. The correct answer is B. Reciprocal inhibition is synonymous with systematic
desensitization. A is incorrect because positive reinforcement rewards a behavior by
following it with a desirable reinforcer. C is incorrect because it refers to the technique of
flooding. D is incorrect because it refers to the technique of punishment.

189. The correct answer is D. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and
family therapists give reasonable notice to clients with unpaid balances of their intent to
seek collection by agency or legal recourse.” This standard does not explicitly state that a
collection agency may not be used if the therapist failed to previously inform the client,
but this ethical principle is implied and is commonly recognized. A and B are incorrect
because use of a collection agency is permitted under the profession’s code of ethics.

Prior notice to the client mitigates against the breach of confidentiality. C is incorrect
because there is no legal nor ethical requirement that the client provide specific written

consent to contact a collection agency regarding an unpaid balance. Specific written
consent would be needed if clinical information were to be provided to the agency, but

clinical information is not needed to accomplish the purpose of the collection effort and
should not be revealed.

190. The correct answer is C. Cognitive egocentrism is a developmentally appropriate

quality of the pre-operational period of cognitive development lasting approximately
through age 7. A is incorrect because narcissistic personality disorder involves

psychopathology, and because even problematic personality traits should not be
diagnosed as personality disorder in a 7 year old. B is incorrect because personality traits
are persistent qualities of personality, whereas cognitive egocentrism in a 7 year old is a

normal developmental stage which will yield to perspectivism in most children as they
mature. D is incorrect because perceptual dominance refers to the pre-operational period

quality of allowing immediate sensory experience to override logic if the two are in
conflict- Such a quality may be related to egocentrism, but the concept of egocentrism

much more closely captures the features described in the question. Keep in mind that the

cognitive quality of egocentrism should not be confused with the personality trait of
egocentrism. Both involve the inability to take another person’s perspective and engage

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

Page 104  MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

in empathic understanding, but the personality trait is the result of emotional and
experiential as well as cognitive processes.

191. The correct answer is C. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and

family therapists may not withhold records under their immediate control that are
requested and needed for a client’s treatment solely because payment has not been
received for past services, except as otherwise provided by law.” A and B are incorrect
because the code of ethics prohibits denial of access solely due to an unpaid bill whether
or not services are still in progress. D is incorrect because the code of ethics prohibits
denial of access if the record is needed for a client’s treatment. Answer D assumes that
access to the record can be denied if the record is needed for treatment purposes or any
purpose other than confirming the amount owed, which is not a true statement.
Incidentally, federal HIPAA legislation requires that the client be given access to the
record for any reason, unless such access would cause serious physical injury or death.

192. The correct answer is A. Our cognitive appraisals of reality lead to our emotional
responses. These, in turn, lead to behavioral inclinations which lead to behaviors.
Maladaptive behaviors then lead to undesirable events.

193. The correct answer is C. Cognitive Therapy refers to a variety of “cognitive errors”
which are similar to Psychodynamic Psychotherapy’s defense mechanisms. “Selective
abstractions” draw a conclusion from a small, selected portion of the available evidence.
It is similar to the research concept of “sampling error.” For example, “I know two
people who died before the age of 50, therefore there’s no point in saving for retirement.”
This person ignores the fact that most people live much longer than age 50. A is incorrect
because this cognitive error is best characterized as “absolutist thinking.” B is incorrect
because this cognitive error is best characterized as “minimization.” D is incorrect
because this cognitive error is best characterized as “personalization.”

194. The correct answer is D. The ethical principle of informed consent requires that you
inform the client of your view of the situation, as well as the consequences of rejecting
that view. The ethical principle regarding scope of competence requires that you refrain
from providing a service for which you have not been adequately trained. You should
redirect the client to someone who can provide such a service. A is incorrect because not
all psychologists or psychiatrists are adequately trained in the particular intervention
technique sought by this client. B is incorrect because there is no evidence to support this
conviction. C is incorrect because this action is designed to meet your needs, not the

client’s. If there are others in the community who can provide the requested service, there
is no need for the client to wait for you to prepare yourself.

195. The correct answer is A. Behavioral specification is an assessment procedure more
so than an intervention procedure. The problem and its specific behaviors are identified,
baseline measures are established, and the situational antecedents and consequences of
the problematic behaviors are identified. B, C and D are incorrect because these are

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 105

 

intervention techniques, best characterized as (B) “response shaping,” (C) “punishment,”
and (D) “behavioral rehearsal.”

196. The correct answer is B. The AAMFT Code of Ethics and other bodies of legal and
ethical standards require that the client be informed of significant information concerning
treatment processes and procedures. A is incorrect because the code of ethics requires
that clients be informed of potential risks associated with “treatments for which generally
recognized standards do not yet exist” but does not require, nor does it prohibit,
informing clients of the risk of refusing treatment. C is incorrect because a client must
have the capacity to consent, but people younger than age 18 may have such capacity. D
is incorrect because A and C are incorrect.

197. The correct answer is B. A is incorrect because, even though the onset of
Asperger’s disorder occurs in childhood, most children with Asperger’s disorder continue
to have this condition throughout their adult life. Therefore, most people with this
disorder are adults. C is incorrect because in Asperger’s disorder there is no clinically
significant delay in cognitive development. D is incorrect because a diagnosis of
Asperger’s disorder is mutually exclusive with a diagnosis of autistic disorder or any
other pervasive developmental disorder.

198. The correct answer is C. A baseline should be established before teaching
relaxation techniques (B), which would reduce anxiety below the true baseline, and
before exposing the client to anxiety provoking situations (A), which would raise anxiety
above the true baseline. D is incorrect because relapse prevention techniques are usually
taught once they become relevant, that is, once the client has made progress from which
there is now a risk of relapse.

199. The correct answer is C. If you believe that a professional colleague is incompetent
and has not taken adequate steps to address the incompetence, take action through
appropriate channels such as those identified in answers A and B. But your first course
of action should be the one identified in C. D is incorrect because this action is
excessive. It is the kind of action required by a Tarasoff Duty to Warn when a client
threatens violence to an identifiable individual, but it is inappropriate as a first course of
action for dealing with the colleague described in the question.

200. The correct answer is D. According to empirical evidence based on Piaget's Theory
of Cognitive Development, metacognition and experimental thinking become
developmentally appropriate during adolescence. This is also referred to as the stage of
formal operations. It is characterized by the capacity to think about logical possibilities
and abstract events in an effective manner not possible at younger ages.

 

BERKELEY‘ TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

