1. A deeply depressed Latino widower feels he needs help but he is ambivalent about
psychotherapy. It is important for you to convey genuineness to this client because
genuineness...
a. builds trust
b. results in depth of understanding of a client's psychodynamics
c. improves With a therapist's level of education
d. results in accurate empathy

2. What is the youngest age at which a minor can legally consent to treatment from a
marriage and family therapist? 
a. 10
b. 12
c. 14
d. 15

Page 10 A MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

3. A client has sought long term, insight oriented therapy to deal with her conflicted
reactions to her recent divorce. During the initial session she changes the subject and
focuses on discipline problems with her eight year old son. Your best course of action is
to...

a. once again raise the issue of the divorce to help the client face reality
b. allow the client to continue expressing her problems with her son, using this as an
opportunity to build relationship and gather important assessment information
c. ask to have the ex-husband attend the next session in order to determine why that
relationship has been so threatening to the client
d. help the client understand why children have problems at times of divorce

4. In order for a minor to legally consent to mental health treatment the minor must...
a. be the victim of child abuse
b. be at least 10 years old
c. be mature enough to participate intelligently in the treatment
d. be accompanied by his or her parent or guardian at the initial session

5. Your 35 year old client is generally anxious and confused. He feels overwhelmed by
changes in his life since his recent divorce, and blames his wife for the problems in their
marriage. If you partialize objectives and tasks into subgoals and subtasks, you are likely
to.
a. confuse the client
b. engage the client in a trusting relationship
c. lose sight of "the big picture"
d. help the client develop a sense of clarity, focus and grasp

6. Your very suspicious new psychotherapy client asks you many personal questions and
wants to know what you expect of her during psychotherapy sessions. Your own
expectations of the treatment process...
a. should never be expressed because they reflect countertransference
b. should be expressed in this instance, but only because the client has asked
c. are a form of self-revelation and are inappropriate in psychotherapy
d. should be made clear and explicit, even if the client had not asked

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 1 1

7. Your client is embarrassed by sweaty palms and a dry mouth in social situations
involving new acquaintances. Your approach should be based on the fact that symptoms
such as these are primarily controlled by...
a. authority figures
b. reinforcement contingencies that follow the behavior
c. stimuli or triggers that precede the behavior
d. decision and free will

8. Your clinical approach emphasizes the importance of a therapeutic alliance and the
client's development of his or her own problem formulation. You are probably using
which of the following approaches?
a. Humanistic Existential
b. Psychodynamic
c. Behavioral
d. Social Systems

9. If you use support and reassurance with a pervasively apprehensive and fearful client,
your approach can....
a. reduce anxiety and guilt feelings
b. free up energy for adaptive problem solving
c. promote dependency and reduce motivation
d. either reduce anxiety, free up energy, or promote dependency

10. You have begun to engage an angry and anxious client in long term, insight oriented
psychotherapy with a goal of symptom reduction and personal development. The primary
purpose of ventilation with such a client is...
a. to generate data for deepening self-exploration and self-awareness
b. cathartic release of pent up frustrations and other problematic feelings
c. to deepen the therapeutic alliance
d. to prevent a sense of overexposure and premature termination

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

Page 12 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

11. You are serving a twenty-five client who has recently come to this country from her
home in Guatemala. The client’s anxiety has been exacerbated by the stress of her
immigration. You should...
a. foster the client’s acculturation to the “mainstream culture” in order to promote
psychosocial adaptation
b. encourage the client’s acculturated family members to foster her acculturation to
the mainstream culture, and not foster her acculturation yourself
c. accept the client’s own inclinations toward acculturating to the mainstream culture
d. encourage the client to resist acculturation to the mainstream culture in order to
maintain cultural diversity in the community

12. Your amphetamine dependent client may experience substance induced delusions for
how many months after discontinuing drug use?
a. 1
b. 3
c. 6
d. 12

13. Your 34 year old client has had a problem of hyperthyroidism dating back to early
adolescence. Which of the following should you look for as a likely direct result of the
client's hormone imbalance?
a. anxiety
b. depression
c. psychosis
d. cognitive dissonance

14. Your client reports that, in several settings, he has been smelling noxious fumes that
nobody else smells. Your client should probably be treated for...
a. schizophrenia
b. organic mental disorder
c. panic attacks
d. dementia

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 13

 

15. A young man seeks therapy to become more self-accepting and freely expressive. He
says he has sought therapy from you because of your reputation for creative and
inspirational interventions. The first thing you should do, in the initial interview, is...
a. primarily listen, while encouraging the expression of feelings
b. recommend several possible strategies for accomplishing the client's goal
c. focus on the how the presenting problem developed
d. remain silent if the client appears to be confused, so that the client can freely take
responsibility for resolving the confusion

16. African Americans are overdiagnosed in some categories, and underdiagnosed
in others, because of...
a. psychopathologies that are stereotypically expected of African Americans
b. cultural bias of traditional IQ tests and other psychometric tests
c. misinterpretations of culturally normative behavior as idiosyncratic
d. stereotypically expected psychopathologies, cultural bias and/ or misinterpretations
of culturally normative behavior

17. Bill and Joan seek treatment for help with intractable and hostile arguments. Both
Bill and Joan speak freely with you, and resist looking at one another during the session.
In working with this couple in conjoint therapy, two therapists of both sexes should be
used for the primary purpose of...
a. preventing either client from feeling threatened when confronted by members of
the opposite sex
b. assessing the clients’ tendency toward triangulation
c. modeling positive cross gender communications
d. testing the clients’ object relations

18. Your client explains that he is preoccupied with anger at a local journalist (whom
he's never met) for unrequited love. Which of the following should you do initially?
a. challenge the delusion and make it clear that you do not accept it as reality
b. agree with the delusion in order to form a therapeutic alliance with the client
c. neither confront nor accept the delusion
d. ask the client why he has come to hold such a peculiar belief

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 14 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

19. Your client is a Latino man who firmly believes that he was impregnated on 
del Santo. He actively participates in a variety of activities within his ethnic community
and has told others about his belief. You should treat his beliefs about pregnancy as...
a. a cultural norm
b. a delusion
c. an illusion
d. an affirmation of faith

20. A client meeting the criteria for a somatization disorder is referred to you by a
physician. Considering the likely psychodynamic purpose of somatization disorder
symptoms, your best approach would be...
a. crisis intervention
b. analytic and interpretive
c. supportive and accepting of appropriate defenses
d. focused on meeting environmental needs

21. Childhood mental disorders may be caused by physical conditions, sex role strain,
psychosocial stressors, genetics, traumas, some combination of these, or a variety of other
causes. Childhood mental disorders are more prevalent among...
a. boys
b. girls
c. generally equal among boys and girls
d. some disorders are more prevalent among boys, a similar number are more
prevalent among girls

22. “Telemedicine” applies to certain forms of clinical practice which are governed by
California state law. What does “telemedicine” refer to?
a. prescriptions over the Internet 
b. practice of health care delivery using audio or video tapes
c. practice of health care delivery using interactive audio, video or data
communications
d. counseling by telephone

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 15

 

23. Your client’s social and occupational functioning have been impaired by high anxiety
following a very stressful event. You will most likely need to treat this client for...
a. posttraumatic stress disorder
b. adjustment disorder with anxious mood
c. no diagnosis
d. cyclothymic disorder

24. The law requires that, prior to engaging in the practice of “telemedicine” you must
inform your client that...
a. all existing confidentiality protections apply
b. telemedicine is inherently risky with regard to confidentiality and that
confidentiality protections are therefore limited
c. telemedicine has not yet demonstrated efficacy
d. you have been trained in the use of telemedicine

25. Your client is a married man who has had sexual relations with his 10 year old
daughter. Chances are greatest that your client...
a. is homosexual
b. does not meet the diagnostic criteria for any particular mental disorder
c. meets the diagnostic criteria for a personality disorder
d. meets the diagnostic criteria for pedophilia

26. You may reveal a client’s privileged communication in the State of California
without your client’s consent under which of the following conditions?
a. in a proceeding to determine the sanity of a criminal defendant
b. in any civil trial
c. in any criminal trial
d. if the client has been the victim of a crime

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 16 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

27. In order to involuntarily detain a suicidal individual under Welfare and Institutions
Code Section 5150, the person’s danger to self must be...
a. less than one month in duration
b. due to a mental disorder
c. documented by two or more psychiatrists
d. documented by two or more mental health professionals of any discipline

28. “The Domestic Violence Reporting Act,” Penal Code Sec. 11160...
a. does not apply to marriage and family therapists because they are not considered
to be a “health practitioner” under this law
b. applies to marriage and family therapists only when practicing psychotherapy
c. only requires reports from marriage and family therapists who treat psychological
trauma resulting from domestic violence
d. only requires reports from health practitioners who treat wounds and injuries

29. When conducting a mental status exam, you should distinguish delusions from which
of the following similar and related symptoms?
a. illusions
b. overvalued ideas
c. obsessions
d. catatonia

30. During substance withdrawal, your client presents with fatigue, psychomotor
agitation, hypersomnia, and delusions. No other somatic features are prominent. Which
kind of drug has your client been using?
a. opiates
b. sedatives
c. alcohol
d. amphetamines

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 1 7

31. Mrs. K. is a middle aged African American client whose level of distress is
disturbing but not disabling. During the initial phase of therapy, reducing her sense of
anxiety through support and reassurance can...
a. reduce motivation for change
b. cause overventilation
c. expand emotional awareness
d. help restructure character

32. Tony’s life appears to be a series of crises which the client does not manage very
well. However, he generally has no significant perceptual distortions and no signs of
thought disorder. Suddenly he becomes wildly agitated and delusional. The client is
most likely experiencing...
a. hyperventilation
b. a schizophreniform disorder
c. a brief psychotic disorder
d. an adjustment disorder

33. Privileged communication does not apply to a client of a marriage and family
therapist if the client... 
a. sought your services in order to escape detection after committing a crime
b. is a minor
c. is a family
d. has failed to fully engage effectively in the treatment process

34. Your client has a strong tendency to use primitive defense mechanisms. Based on
this information, which of the following would you most likely expect to observe in your
client?
a. denial and introjection
b. intellectualization and rationalization
c. sublimation and identification
d. impulse control and sense of reality

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 19

39. Mr. G. is a client who has recently immigrated to this country under stress. He is of a
culture other than your own. When conducting a mental status examination you should
be especially careful when interpreting the client’s response to which of these MSE
techniques?
a. serial sevens
b. a question about today's date
c. a request to assemble matchsticks in a manner that copies another pattern
d. a request to interpret a proverb

40. Your client is concerned about a persistent problem of guilt. He avoids competition
and is righteously moralistic when referring to the successful people he knows. If you
were taking a developmental history, What age should you focus on in order to discover
the source of this client's underlying conflict or fixation?
a. infancy
b. toddlerhood 
c. preschool or early elementary years
d. adolescence

41. The conflict between identity versus role confusion can cause problems for your
clients at which stage of life?
a. elementary school age
b. adolescence
c. young adulthood
d. at any age

42. One of the treatment plan objectives for Janet, a 23 year old, calls for increased
capacity for empathy. When evaluating increased capacity for empathy in this client, the
most important consideration should be...
a. assuring a sound theoretical basis for the change you are working toward
b. generalizability of the findings to your other clients
c. review by a human subjects review committee
d. generalizability of changes observed in sessions, to changes in day to day family
relationships

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 20 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

43. When providing service to an individual at the request of a third party a marriage and
family therapist should...
a. clarify that the third party will not be entitled to confidential information
b. clarify the nature of the relationship with each party and the limits of
confidentiality
c. treat both the third party and the referred individual as clients
d. provide the third party only with information regarding the client’s attendance at
therapy and a general summary of therapeutic progress

44. The Andersons are a couple who have sought your clinical services to resolve a
problem of persistent, intractable, and often violent fights among the siblings in the
family. In taking a Strategic Family Therapy approach, you should recognize that the
troubled children in this family are...
a. participants in a sequential pattern of dysfunctional family dynamics
b. victims of dysfunctional parents
c. caused by troubled parents
d. a symptom of an alienated society

45. Mr. G. is an anxious client who has sought therapy for help in overcoming self-
defeating behavior that interferes with career success. However, the client becomes silent
almost every time the issue of authority relationships with supervisors arises. This
client's silence probably represents...
a. confusion
b. insight development 
c. engagement
d. resistance

46. An anxious client sought therapy for help in overcoming self-defeating behavior that
interferes with career success. However, the client becomes silent almost every time the
issue of authority relationships with supervisors arises. As this client's therapist your best
course of action would be to...
a. identify this pattern of behavior and engage the client in exploring What it might
mean
b. explain the importance of authority relationships with supervisors
c. see what emerges from the silence and pursue that theme
d. encourage the client to speak when the subject of authority relationships with
supervisors arises

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 21

47. You will most likely need to help your clients deal with the experience of a sense of
rejection or narcissistic injury to self-esteem during...
a. engagement
b. assessment
c. the middle phase
d. termination

48. As his therapist your unconscious, distorted perceptions of your rebellious adolescent
client are...
a. a source of empathic insight to the client's psychodynamics
b. a transference
c. a countertransference
d. unlikely in cognitive and behavioral approaches to therapy

49. Mr. P, a 63 year old patient with vascular dementia and a recent heart attack, needs
treatment for marital problems which have a negative effect on his medical condition.
This individuals mental disorder is the result of....
a. traumatic developmental history
b. hypoglycemia
c. cardiac arrhythmia
d. small strokes

50. You have seen Tom M in long term, insight oriented psychotherapy for three years.
Several weeks ago you raised the issue of termination. Since then he began to devalue
you and, for the first time, denies the benefits of his over-all course of therapy. You
should treat this behavior as...
a a Way to deny losing something of value
b. an indication that the client has not yet uncovered a significant unresolved conflict
c. a sign, of psychopathology
d. a sign of borderline personality disorder

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 22 A MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

51. In reviewing the clinical documentation on a newly referred Vietnamese family you
notice frequent references to “double bind communication” between the parents and their
oldest daughter. This kind of communication should be treated as...
a. similar to the cause of experimental neurosis
b. a cause of schizophrenia
c. culturally valued in Southeast Asian cultures
d. a cause of multiple personality disorder

52. Your client is a depressed sixty-seven year old man who needs a referral to a
bereavement support group. The first thing you should do when making this referral is
to...
a. discuss the referral with the resource before presenting it to the client
b. visit the resource so that you may personally evaluate it
c. relate the referral to the client's objectives, preferences and concerns
d. assure the client of the referral resource's effectiveness

53. Your initial session with a family includes two parents, their three children, a
grandparent, and an uncle. All family members live in the same house. In the course of
your interview the uncle, a skilled carpenter, notices the damage to your window frame,
and offers to fix it as payment for services to the family. What are you permitted to do?
a. You may accept the offer if you determine that the uncle does not need to be a
participant in the family's sessions.
b. You may accept the offer only if the other family members agree.
c. You may not accept the offer because of a conflict of interest.
d. You may not accept the offer because the uncle, as ‘a member of a troubled family,
lacks the capacity to make informed decisions about such matters.

54. Billy, a child with an adjustment disorder, is referred to you for play therapy by his
mother’s therapist. You should not use play therapy with a child unless....
a. the child is between the ages of 3 and 9
b. the child is preverbal
c. the parent or guardian gives explicit permission
d. the child will benefit from nonverbal expression of thoughts and feelings

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

ME T PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS A Page 23

55. Four suicidal clients have applied for service at your community mental health clinic.
All of them can describe a method for taking their own lives and all are similarly
depressed. Which client is at highest risk for suicide and, therefore, should be seen first if
you can see only one client today?
a. a male, age 55, who is living alone
b. a female, age 19, who says she wants to kill herself to punish her father for
leaving her mother
c. a male, age 43, who is living with his wife
d. a female, age 44, who is frightened by her suicidal thoughts

56. You are treating a paranoid and narcissistic young man who insists on seeing his
clinical records. He claims that he, as the client, “owns” the information in the record.
Your response should be based on the fact that the party who"owns" the information
revealed by the client to a therapist is...
a. the client
b. the therapist
c. the therapist's agency
d. the agency's board of directors

57. When obtaining informed consent from a client who is about to be engaged in an
unusual treatment technique, which of the following factors is not a necessary element of
the informed consent?
a. consent must be given without coercion
b. the client must have accurate information about the treatment she is consenting to
c. the client must be of sound mind, having the ability to understand and reason
about the decision
d. the consent must be documented

58. Your client presents a complex case in which he has suffered all of the following
stressors over the past four years. Which of these should you view as the most severe
stressor and, therefore, the one most likely to contribute to the client’s multiple
symptoms?
a. being fired at work
b. divorce
c. death of a close friend
d. change in residence

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 24 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

59. David, age 9, has had his right leg amputated after a cancerous tumor was found. His
parents constantly try to cheer him up and they say that they "don't understand why he
doesn't respond...after all, the doctor said it hasn't spread." You should view David's
parents’ behavior as...
a. an empathic response
b. denial
c. double bind communication
d. supportive behavior

60. You are preparing your client to anticipate some of the consequences of a leg
amputation that he is expected to undergo within a few days. You should let your client
know that, as a result of a leg amputation he is most likely to experience...
a. low self-esteem
b. disturbed object relations
c. phantom limb syndrome
d. cognitive dissonance

61. You are practicing psychodynamic psychotherapy with a client who has serious
conflicts in relation to competition, winning and losing. In analyzing your client's
conflicts you should pay special attention to his development at about the age of...
a. infancy
b. age 2
c. age 5
d. adolescence

62. Donald K. is an emotionally labile client who rapidly cycles between idealizing and
devaluing you as the therapist. He complains of a persistent sense of “emptiness” and is
confused about his identity and purpose in life. Your best course of action with Donald
will be...
a. reality oriented
b. focused on in-depth interpretation of unconscious dynamics
c. confrontive
d. paradoxical instruction

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 25

63. Your client sought therapy for help in dealing with his many unsatisfying and
“shallow” relationships. However, in the course of treatment you learn that the client
experiences discrete periods of high anxiety with sudden onset and no apparent trigger.
You should rule out, or arrange to rule out...
a. childhood trauma
b. culturally sanctioned religious experience
c. hyperthyroidism
d. hypochondria

64. Your client is a young man with schizophrenia. In developing an outpatient
treatment plan it would be best to emphasize....
a. reality problem solving
b. clarification and working through of double bind communication
c. interpretation of delusional themes
d. meeting the client’s housing needs.

65. You are providing clinical services to clients in a day treatment program, all of whom
experience "sundowner syndrome." You will probably need to treat your clients for
psychosocial problems associated with...
a. organic dementia
b. panic disorder
c. personality disorder
d. bulimia nervosa

66. You are leading a recently formed psychotherapy group for women who have been
sexually molested as children and who now experience the consequences of their former
abuse. During the exploring and testing phase of your group's development you should...
a. encourage conflict
b. suppress conflict
c. expect and accept conflict
d. take a strong leadership position

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 26 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

67. Mrs. Roth complains about her 26 year old daughter, Lisa, who has been
irresponsible and has maintained a dependent relationship with her mother. She seeks
your help in figuring out whether or not Lisa might be abusing drugs. Your first course of
action, in the initial session, should be to...
a. help Mrs. Roth understand the nature of codependency
b. encourage Mrs. Roth to speak about herself, not Lisa
c. educate Mrs. Roth about the symptoms of chemical dependency
d. observe Mrs. Roth's way of understanding and handling the problem

68. Your client lives with her hostile and verbally abusive 26 year old daughter. By the
sixth session it appears likely that your client’s daughter is chemically dependent. By this
time you and your client have agreed that the primary focus of therapy will be to develop
autonomy in her relationship with her daughter. You should encourage your client to...
a. ask her daughter to move out until she is clean. and sober
b. bring her daughter in to see you for therapy
c. set clear and simple expectations about paying rent and acceptable behavior at the
house
d. explore her own contribution to the development of her daughter’s dysfunctional
behavior

69. You are providing therapy to the codependent mother of a chemically dependent
daughter. Her goal in therapy is to establish autonomy in her relationship with her
daughter. You should plan to terminate therapy with your client When...
a. she has established sufficient autonomy in her relationship with her daughter
b. the daughter is successfully engaged in her own treatment
c. the psychodynamic source of her codependency has been resolved
d. she says she feels ready to terminate

70. Linda is a pregnant 14 year old girl who comes to see you for help in making a
decision regarding abortion. She is preoccupied with the possibility of punishment from
her father, whom she says is "always on me." You should...
a. report to children's protective services immediately
b. report to children's protective services if you have a reasonable suspicion of child
abuse
c. call children's protective services to see whether or not a previous report has been
filed
d. report to children's protective services only if you have clear evidence of child
abuse

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 27

 

71. You are working with several hostile adolescent males who engage in antisocial
behavior and who have each had several arrests. When you use confrontation as a
psychotherapeutic technique with these clients you should...
a. infer the meaning, motives, or causes of an issue or event
b. make the client aware of inconsistencies
c. challenge the client to engage in more socially constructive behavior
d. recognize that you will be unable to provide support I

72. In the course of providing professional assistance it is unethical for a marriage and
family therapist to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation...
a. unless the MFT has religious convictions regarding homosexuality
b. unless homosexuality is unacceptable within the MFT’s ethnic culture
c. unless the MFT has had inadequate training in how to Work with homosexual
clients
d. regardless of the MFT’s religion, ethnic culture or prior training

73. In your psychoeducational group for mothers of young infants, you should explain
that, in the healthy infant, the notion that objects exist apart from oneself develops at
about the age of....
a. 3 months
b. 6 months
c. 9 months
d. one year

74. An MFT Intern approaches you to receive qualifying supervision toward licensure.
She wants you to focus on helping her develop better treatment plans with her clients. As
a licensed MFT, in order for you to provide qualifying supervision to this Intern you
must...
a. offer suggestions, but not direction of the Intern’s work
b. assume responsibility and control of the quality of marriage and family therapy
services provided by the Intern
c. be available to support the quality of the Intern’s work, but only upon her request
d. be employed by the Intern or by a third party agency which employs both you and
the Intern

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 28 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

 

75. In taking a Social Systems approach to therapy with an enmeshed family you should
expect that all of the following are true except...
a. change in one member will affect other members
b. change in the system as a whole will affect each member
c. change is constant
d. the participants need to be free of social control

76. In your work with an intensive, insight oriented psychotherapy group you should
recognize that all of the following contribute to the group's capacity to promote positive
change except...
a. cohesion
b. open airing of conflict and crisis
c. a fluid dominance hierarchy
d. clarity and consensus of purpose

77. Your client has been arrested for physical assaults against his wife. He now
expresses remorse and claims that he will never again engage in such violent behavior.
Which of the following qualities is least indicative of high recidivism risk for this client?
a. undifferentiated self-concept
b. overwhelmed by guilt for the offense
c. androgynous sex role self-image
d. family blames victim

78. A psychiatrist is treating a woman for major depressive disorder and refers the client
to you for concurrent psychotherapy. Which of the following symptoms would you least
expect to find when you assess this client?
a. hyperventilation
b. psychomotor agitation
c. psychomotor retardation
d. anhedonia

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 29

79. You are working with a client who is twenty years younger than you. The client is
also of another ethnic culture. You must first establish a basis for the client’s
identification with you in order to effectively use which of the following treatment
techniques?
a. modeling
b. interpretation
c. communication
d. introjection

80. As a staff member of a community mental health crisis intervention clinic, all of your
treatment plans should... .
a. be determined by the client .
b. reflect the problem, person and situational aspects of a case
c. address the client's need to improve self-esteem
d. contain at least five objectives

81. You are interviewing a nine year old child who has been sexually abused by her
father. She states that she has been afraid to reveal the secret because of pressure from
both parents. When interviewing this child, you should not say which of the following?
a. "I know lots of children this has happened to."
b. "It'll be okay. Your dad won't have to go to jail for this."
c. "What did your dad say that made you afraid to tell?"
d. "Show me where he touched you."

82. You are working with a middle aged man in insight oriented psychotherapy. The
client seeks to overcome a long standing problem of dependency on the women in his
life. If you use "why questions” regarding the client’s underlying motivations, you should
expect that your questions will tend to...
a. provoke defensiveness
b. elicit valid and reliable information
c. express the interviewer's countertransferences
d. focus the client's attention on underlying affect

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 30 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

83. The Ramirez family is referred to you for psychosocial evaluation and possible family
therapy by the court. In the course of interviewing family members to determine the
circumstances of this domestic violence situation, you should avoid all of the following
except...
a. leading questions
b. multiple questions in a single sentence
c. honest and open labeling of your suspicions
d. open ended questions

84. You are working in a treatment program for incest perpetrators. The clinical record
indicates that your new client has a problem of “regressed pedophilia,” not fixated
pedophilia. He does not meet the criteria for a paraphilia diagnosis. This means all of the
following are true except...
a. his primary sexual orientation is to agemates
b. a precipitating stress probably caused his paraphilia
c. his pedophilic interests emerged after adolescence
d. he uses primitive defense mechanisms when sexually aroused

85. An eighty year old man is referred to you for a psychosocial evaluation. The
referring internist has been concerned about the client’s apparent depression, but thinks
that the client might also be experiencing cognitive problems. In making a differential
diagnosis of “organic dementia” in this client you should rule out...
a. mood disorder
b. personality disorder
c. delusional disorder
d. Munchausen's syndrome

86. Under the California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act, when a person
requesting information about a client’s outpatient psychotherapy submits a written request
for consent to the client, the request must state...
a. the specific intended use of the information
b. the credentials of the person making the request
c. by what date the information must be received
d. that the information will be protected under HIPAA regulations

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 3 1

 

87. In assessing a 50 year old depressed client for suicide risk, which question should
you use to draw the most valid and reliable information?
a. "Describe any methods you've ever used to try to kill yourself, however
insignificant they might seem."
b. "Have you ever made any serious attempts to kill yourself?"
c. "Describe any serious suicide attempts you may have made."
d. "Why do you want to die?"

88. Your client is a sixty year old cardiac patient who takes long pauses before answering
each of your questions. Which should you consider to be the least likely explanation?
a. thought blocking
b. depression
c. obsessiveness and/or compulsiveness
d. low self-esteem

89. In the course of consulting with you, a colleague reveals that his client, Mrs. Kahn,
has just received a Presidential Citation for her local civic work. You believe she would
be a good asset to your agency's board of directors. When you contact the chair of the
board to make your suggestion you...
a. may not reveal the information about Mrs. Kahn's citation
b. may reveal the information because she is not your client and did not present the
information to you in confidence
c. may reveal the information because it is favorable and not derogatory to the client
d. may reveal the information, but only after contacting the client for her permission

90. The client, a 45 year old man, brings his aging father to the front desk of the medical
clinic. He says "My father has worked hard and paid taxes all his life. He has paid his
health insurance premiums without missing a single one for over twenty years. He's
entitled to see the doctor immediately." You should assess these statements as evidence
of...

a. a flight of ideas
b. delusional thinking
c. illogical thinking
d. ideas of reference

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 32 I MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

91. The client, a 45 year old man, says "Don't touch my hat because if you do I will die.
This hat was made in Peru, the heart of the Andean coca trade. I have a terrible heart
condition and I would not survive if you were to touch this hat." You should assess these
statements as indicating...
a. circumstantial thinking
b. delusional thinking
c. thought blocking
d. hallucinatory thinking

92. A client reports hearing a voice throughout the day in which the voice says "I am the
god of hellfire and you are my servant. I am the god of hellfire and you are under my
control." You should assess this client's experience as...
a. a delusion
b. an hallucination
c. an illusion
d. ideas of reference

93. Linda, age 4, appears depressed and passive. She tends to isolate herself when peers
are around but becomes clingy with adults, sometimes indiscriminately attached. Your
assessment should recognize that Linda has most likely been...
a. physically abused 
b. neglected
c. sexually abused
d. exposed to lead

94. If a person has having healthy object relations that person...
a. has good insight into unconscious motivations
b. is able to vary the degree of intimacy and distance in a relationship
c. is able to tolerate frustration when goal attainment is blocked
d. is socially active with many friends

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 33

95. Your client, Jonathan W, describes an experience in which he was driving down the
freeway and felt "as if I was sitting next to myself in the car." He is frightened by the
experience and asks you to explain what it represents. Jonathan is probably...
a. an adolescent reporting a depersonalization experience
b. a psychotic adult
c. a demented elder
d. a confabulating elder

96. Your client is the mother of three children who tells you that she wants to teach her
children to do their chores. She says that she wants the learning to be stable and long
lasting. To accomplish this, you should advise her to reward the child for desirable
behavior....
a every time he does his chores
b. every fifth time he does his chores
c. once a week
d. occasionally at varying intervals when he does his chores

97. You are providing psychotherapy services to clients of all ages who present with a
variety of mood disturbances. During the middle phase of therapy you should generally
consider using strategies to deal with....
a. enhancing client motivation
b. client engagement
c. crisis intervention
d. goal attainment scaling

98. Your work with depressed clients at a community mental health clinic focuses on
reducing depressive symptoms, increasing activity levels, building self-esteem, and
strengthening social support networks. You should expect that the phase of
psychotherapy that is most likely to precipitate a crisis is...
a. treatment planning
b. intervention
c. the middle phase
d. termination

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 34 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

99. You are working with a caseload of deeply depressed clients at a community mental
health clinic. You should first use techniques designed to bring about psychotherapeutic
change in which phase of psychotherapy?
a. during engagement
b. during the assessment
c. during the middle phase following development of a treatment plan
d. once insight is achieved

100. A client seeks therapy because he wants to stop a pattern of failed relationships. In
the first few sessions he shares long stories about loosely related events over the course of
his life. He seems to take pleasure in the sharing. He spends little time examining how
he might change. In order to mobilize the client's energy for therapeutic change you
should....
a. set short term goals within a specified time frame
b. use self-revelation
c. use role play
d. assure the client of your dependability

101. Your client is a twenty-five year old man with paranoid personality traits who sees
you as a much more authoritarian and harsh person than you really are. He also describes
his mother as authoritarian and harsh. Your assessment should recognize this client’s
pattern as any of the following except...
a. a transference if the mother was, in fact, authoritarian and harsh
b. a displacement if the mother was, in fact, authoritarian and harsh
c. a projection, if the mother was not authoritarian and harsh
d. an illusion

102. A client describes his wife. "Diane is so perceptive. Even when people have
trouble saying what they mean, she usually seems to know just how they feel anyway. It's
like she comes up with just the right words for them, just what they were trying to say but
couldn't. And they'll say "Yeah, that's it exactly." He is describing his wife's quality of
a. unconditional positive regard
b. accurate empathy
c. genuineness
d. codependency

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS ' Page 35

103. When a depressed client expresses severe guilt over having stolen a twenty dollar
bill from his brother's wallet, which of the following should be your first course of
action?
a. help the client see that guilt can be healthy
b. encourage the client to return the money
c. universalize the experience to provide reassurance
d. listen non-judgmentally, allowing ventilation

104. You are about to initiate treatment with a forty year old client who is ambivalent
about seeking psychotherapy but has been pressured to seek help by several family
members. You should be sure that your therapist-client contract with this individual....
a. is documented and signed by a third party
b. addresses mutual role expectations
c. rules out suicidal behavior
d. is written by the client

105. You are taking a Structural Family Therapy approach to a family seeking help for a
variety of problems which they describe as “dysfunctional communication.” Assuming
that this is, in general, a healthy family you should expect to find an unequal and greater
share of power in.... 
a. the parental coalition
b. the sibling coalition
c. the dominant parent
d. no individual or subgroup...all members would have equal power

106. In the context of family treatment the therapist...
a. may reveal any participating family member’s confidences with any other
participating family member
b. may not reveal any participating family member’s confidences unless all family
members have agreed to a “no secrets” policy
c. may not reveal any participating family member’s confidences with any other
participating family member without the prior written permission of that
individual
d. may reveal confidences among all participants in the identified “client system” if
it serves a therapeutic purpose

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 36 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

107. You are the case manager for a client with a major mental illness who is served by a
team of representatives from several agencies. In order to assure that differentiation
among members of the service delivery team leads to greater effectiveness and efficiency,
you should work to see that... 
a. a physician is included in the team
b. the team is multidisciplinary
c. the team members each represent a well funded agency
d. the differentiated roles are coordinated

108. You are initiating a course of long term, insight oriented psychotherapy with a
young man who is struggling with identity formation. Which of the following techniques
should you use due to the fact that it is most directly relevant to preparing this client for
eventual interpretations?
a. clarification
b. ventilation
c. behavioral rehearsal
d. psychodynamic insight

109. Your client is a twenty-nine year old man who has a persistent and pervasive history
of intense interpersonal relationships, dependency, and violent rebellions against the
caregiving efforts of others. This client might decompensate into psychosis...
a. during the evening hours
b. under stress
c. when suicidal
d. under no circumstances

110. Under the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act, you should report a case of
"sexual exploitation" if you find any of the following except one. Which one?
a. possessing matter depicting a minor engaged in obscene acts
b. employing a minor to perform obscene acts
c. distributing matter depicting a minor engaged in obscene acts
d. when a person with custody of a child permits the child to engage in prostitution

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS V Page 37

 

111. You are treating an anxious client who has been diagnosed with an obsessive
compulsive personality disorder. In your assessment you should expect to find that this
client has...
a. obsessions
b. compulsions
c. both obsessions and compulsions
d. neither obsessions nor compulsions

112. Your anxious and depressed client repeatedly asks you to give advice regarding a
variety of decisions. You should anticipate that the client will be best able to use advice
successfully in all of the following circumstances except...
a. in a crisis situation when their own ability to deal with a problem is inadequate
due to exceptional anxiety and pain
b. when it is advice about selecting ends (goals), not only advice about the means to
an end
c. when they have a well-founded confidence in you as the advice giver
d. their cultural conditioning is such that they tend to depend on others for advice

113. You are about to develop a variety of psychotherapy groups at a community mental
health clinic that is seeking more efficient ways of responding to a high service demand.
When developing these new groups you should follow the principle that...
a. group size should determine composition
b. group structure should. determine composition
c. group composition should determine structure
d. group purpose should determine structure

114. Your community mental health caseload primarily consists of people with
moderately severe mental illnesses and multiple psychosocial problems. In order to
achieve clear communication with your clients you should use all of the following
except... 
a. verbal messages without nonverbal messages
b. repetition
c. emphasis
d. use of feedback to test comprehension

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 38 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

115. When consulting with a colleague about one of your clients...
a. you may share client information freely if the colleague is a licensed professional
bound by ethical standards regarding maintaining confidentiality
b. you may share client information freely if the colleague is a licensed marriage and
family therapist
c. you may only share personally identifiable information with the prior written
consent of the client
d. you may only share personally identifiable information if the client consents in
writing and is present at the time of the consultation

116. You are in the first phase of treatment with a young woman who has sought help for
symptoms of depression. By the time you have completed the engagement process with
your client you should have achieved all of the following except...
a. an agreement on the next step in the therapeutic process
b. a mutual way of defining the presenting problem
c. a selection of treatment modalities
d. a preliminary agreement regarding role relationships

117. With regard to giving gifts to a client, marriage and family therapists...
a. may not give gifts to clients
b. may not give gifts that impair the integrity of the therapeutic relationship
c. may give any gift that is not of substantial Value
d. may give a gift of substantial value only if it constitutes a fair exchange with a gift
of similar value from the client

118. You are providing psychotherapy services to an anxious, middle aged client who is A
troubled by self-doubt and self-blame. In giving reassurance to this client your best
course of action would be to assure him that...
a. the situation with which he is struggling has an attainable solution
b. he is not responsible for having a problem
c. with help, the problem will be resolved
d. he has the capacity to resolve the problem without help


BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 39

119. In taking a psychosocial history you ask your client to describe the course of therapy
with a prior therapist. The client reports having felt sexually attracted to the last therapist. This client is probably...
a. a survivor of childhood sexual assault or exploitation
b. responding to the inherent intimacy of the therapeutic relationship
c. being deceptive
d. responding to a seductive manipulation by the prior therapist

120. Sexual intimacy...
a. is prohibited until the therapy relationship has first terminated
b. is prohibited with former clients
c. is prohibited with former clients for one year following termination of therapy or
the last professional contact
d. prohibited with former clients for two years following termination of therapy or
the last professional contact

121. You are providing family therapy services at a treatment program for recently
arrived immigrants who are experiencing severe intergenerational conflict. When these
families become dysfunctional it is because of... 
a. ambiguity about norms and covert communications
b. homeostasis
c. a dominant parental coalition
d. social control

122. Martin and Lois Jackson are deeply devoted to their daughter Miranda, whom they
have continued to call "my baby" over the years. When Miranda's little brother Thomas
was born, Miranda remained the primary focus of their caregiving attention. Miranda
always saw Thomas as an intruder and never developed a very close bond with him. You
should assess the Jackson family as having problems of...
a. emneshment
b. disengagement
c. inflexible structure
d. factitious communication

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES CC) 2009

  Page 40 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

123. Under California law you have a mandated duty to report reasonable suspicion of
child abuse. "Child abuse" includes all of the following except one. Which one?
a. neglect of a child in out of home care
b. non-accidental infliction of physical injury
c. unjustifiable corporal punishment
d. mutual assaults between minors

124. You have been treating a client for depression, but the client also has problems with
anger management. You are aware of a community resource that specializes in anger
management and you decide to refer your client to that agency for collateral treatment.
When referring the client to this other agency you and the client should discuss all of the
following except one. Which one?
a. a recommendation as to which staff member at the other agency can best meet the
client's needs
b. ambivalence about using the referral
c. how the referral is related to the client's problem and purpose
d. potential benefits of using the agency's services

125. You have several clients awaiting access to a specialized panic disorder
psychotherapy service which has a long waiting list. In advocating for your clients’
access, you should encourage the agency to arrange earlier terminations with the current
active caseload, based on the fact that... 
a. six sessions are sufficient to resolve most of their current clients’ problems
b. the greatest gains in therapy occur during early sessions after which there is a
point of diminishing returns
c. most current clients have probably already achieved their goals and objectives
d. counseling and psychotherapy are generally ineffective

126. You are providing crisis intervention services to the working poor in an urban
community mental health clinic. All of the following are effective problem solving
mechanisms likely to be used by your clients who are in crisis except...
a. task oriented activity
b. engaging social supports
c. partializing the problem
d. somatization

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 41

 

127. When consulting with colleagues or referral sources which of the following rules
apply to the sharing of client identifiable information?
a. share only client identifiable information that is needed to achieve the purposes of
the consultation if the client has consented in writing
b. share only client identifiable information that is needed to achieve the purposes of
the consultation if the client has consented verbally or in writing
c. share whatever client identifiable information is needed for your colleague to
understand the nature of the client’s case
d. share Whatever client identifiable information the client has authorized you to
provide

128. A fifty-five year old man’s psychosocial functioning has been stable and within
normal limits. Recently, however, a stressor has provoked confusion and anxiety. In
order to help this client stabilize his crisis you should do all,of the following except...
a. help the client separate his experience of the present stressful event from his
experience of prior crises
b. use the crisis intervention approach as a way of engaging the client in longer term
therapy
c. explore how the present experience of stabilizing and resolving a crisis state may
help in coping with future crises
d. see what can be learned from past coping mechanisms

129. A middle aged client with healthy object relations, judgment, sense of identity and
cognitive functioning has sought therapy to work through his difficulty in making a major
career decision. He seeks brief therapy because he senses that the source of his difficulty
with this decision lies in unresolved identity issues. You should consider this client to be
a good candidate for brief therapy because successful engagement in a brief therapy
depends on...
a. being free of ambivalence about using psychotherapy
b. having multiple conflicts or problem areas to focus on
c. having ego strength to tolerate rapid involvement and loss
d. being free of ego defenses

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 42 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

130. A client informs you that her husband, who is also your client, plans to burn down
their neighbor’s house later on the day of the interview. You may reveal this information
in order to prevent a significant threatened danger, but only if...
a. the client consents
b. care is taken to determine the information's validity
c. the client was instructed earlier about the limits to confidentiality
d. the client has a serious and persistent mental illness

131. When developing an intervention strategy to deal with a client s resistance,” you
should be aware of the fact that the client is resisting...
a. the pursuit of his own goals
b. insight
c. the therapist's techniques
d. the therapist's authority

132. Your client is a successful marketing consultant who offers to enter into a business
partnership with you. Even though therapeutic progress has been good, the client offers
to terminate therapy to avoid the dual relationship problem, and has access to adequate
resources for resuming therapy with another practitioner.
a. you may enter into this business relationship, but only after confirming that the
client has actually engaged with another therapist
b. you may not enter into this business relationship
c. you may not enter into this business relationship if you believe the client's request
represents a resistance
d. you should enter into this business relationship if you believe it would be mutually
beneficial and if you believe it would foster the client's therapy goals

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 43

 

133. Another professional refers a client to your private practice. At your request, the
referring professional later spends one hour teaching you a guided imagery technique that
he has successfully used with the client. You may pay a fee to this other professional
only if...
a. the payment is based on the nature of the referral
b. the payment is based on both consultative services received from the referring
person and on the nature of the referral
c. the payment is based on consultative services received from the referring person
but not on the nature of the referral
d. the payment should not be made at all; no payment of any kind may be made to a
person who has referred a client to you.

134. Your private practice client is an attorney who wants help in resolving ambivalence
about leaving his wife. The attorney offers to provide legal services in exchange for
psychotherapy services, rather than pay a fee. This barter arrangement...
a. constitutes a dual relationship and should therefore not be made
b. may be made only if a written agreement clarifies the nature of the exchange
c. may be made only if an independent third party confirms the comparable worth of
the barter exchange
d. is non-taxable and should therefore not be made

135. Your client of nine months is an AIDS patient who has been hospitalized with a
second bout of pneumocystis pneumonia. In this midstage of the disease process you
should expect that your client is likely to experience...
a. loss of hope and emotional exhaustion
b. affective numbing
c. denial
d. reduction of suicide risk following the initial stage turmoil

136. You should determine whether or not your client has experienced hypoglycemia,
excessive caffeine use, or mitral valve prolapse if your client is presenting with...
a. schizotypal symptoms '
b. panic symptoms
c. depression symptoms
d. manic symptoms

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 44 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

137. Your alcohol dependent client is curious about the Alcoholics Anonymous program
and asks you for information about it. You should inform her that the program...
a. is based on Rankian Personality Theory
b. is affiliated with the Methodist Church, but non-sectarian in its approach and
membership
c. charges dues according to a sliding scale with no fee charged to those who cannot
afford payment
d. has a primary purpose of achieving sobriety and staying sober

138. When referring a client to the Cocaine Anonymous program, you should inform
your client of the fact that the pro gram’s membership requirements include...
a. a desire to stop using cocaine
b. abstinence from using cocaine while engaged in the program
c. belief in a higher power
d. being introduced by a sponsor who is already a member

139. Your client is persistently sad and has been unable to take pleasure in activities or
relationships that used to be pleasurable. The client does not meet the criteria for a mood
disorder. Instead, the client’s mood symptoms constitute associated features of another
condition. These clinical symptoms are not an associated feature of...
a. panic disorder
b. schizophrenia
c. bereavement
d. specific phobia

140. Your clients are a couple whose ethnic background is based in a patriarchal culture.
Your approach should recognize that, within your client’s culture, role strain and marital
conflict are likely to arise when...
a. a married woman works outside the home
b. the father relates in a warm and playful manner with the children
c. unrelated godparents serve a parental role
d. children establish a closer relationship with their mother than with their father

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2.009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 45

141. Your client has a diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder. She has been
traumatized by a series of violent assaults from her alcoholic and abusive husband. Your
clinical approach should recognize that when this client experiences psychic numbing it
probably...
a. has the purpose of protecting against pain following physical injury
b. involves a feeling of detachment or estrangement from others
c. means that she has learned to use a cognitive therapy technique involving mind
over matter
d. is due to substance use

142. Many of your clients present with a variety of moderate to serious mental illnesses,
often involving disturbances of affect and mood. In conducting assessments of these
clients, you should consider their affect to be inappropriate when it...
a. is associated with abusive or exploitive acting out
b. is discordant with the content of a person's speech or ideation
c. reflects an exaggerated or histrionic response to a minor stressor
d. is inconsistent with a person's ethnic culture

143. You are discussing clear role relationships with a new client in your private
practice. You should explain to the client that self-determination means that the client
has the right to determine...
a. a course of action
b. the outcome of her actions
c. the outcome of her own psychotherapy
d. the therapist's level of genuineness

144. When asked to describe his last teaching job, your 68 year old client can’t remember
important information such as the grade he taught or the name of the school he taught at.
But he gave an answer saying that his last class was a third grade class at the nearby
Waldorf School, even though this was not true. You should recognize your client’s
behavior as...
a. malingering
b. factitious disorder
c. lying
d. confabulation

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 46' MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

145. Your client is a woman with severe schizotypal personality traits. According to
your client, "When I'm in the supermarket I feel as if other shoppers are watching to see
what I buy. When they do, they then seem to avoid buying those items." Your
assessment should show that your client is manifesting...
a. an hallucination
b. a delusion
c. an illusion
d. an idea of reference

146. Your client is an overly suspicious and insecure man who meets the criteria for a
paranoid personality disorder. You should anticipate that this client's symptoms will
probably tend to....
a. become more prominent with age
b. become less prominent with age
c. remain stable over the course of his or her life
d. become more functional under stress

147. In your diagnostic assessments, which of the following should you identify as a
feature of substance dependence but not substance abuse?
a. recurrent use resulting in a failure to fulfill major role obligations
b. compulsive use pattern
c. recurrent substance related legal problems
d. recurrent use in hazardous situations

148. Your client states that his ex-wife uses corporal punishment with their eight year old
son, and that he wants to have the child removed from her custody and have her arrested.
His description does not lead you to form a reasonable suspicion that she is physically
abusing the child. You should help your client to understand that, under California law,
corporal punishment is....
a. illegal under all circumstances
b. illegal if it is considered cruel or inhuman
c. legal if the child's caretaker deems it to be in the child's best interest
d. legal under all circumstances when done by a child's parent

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 47

 

149. You are providing psychoeducational groups to help young mothers develop a
realistic sense of expectations for their babies’ behavior. You should explain to them, in
a language that they understand, that in the healthy infant the object concept develops
during the developmental stage when a child is dealing with the conflict between...
a. trust vs. mistrust
b. autonomy vs. shame and doubt
c. initiative vs. guilt
d. industry vs. inferiority

150. A colleague is retiring. In arranging for follow up services for his clients who have
remaining unmet needs, he offers to refer a client to you in exchange for a fee equal to
your hourly fee. You may...
a. pay the fee only if your colleague has made the client aware of the payment
b. pay the fee only if you have made the client aware of the payment
c. not agree to pay the fee, but give the client the option of paying the fee on your
behalf
d. not agree to pay the fee, and not ask the client to pay the fee on your behalf

151. You suspect that a client has been sexually abusing his daughter. When you tell
your supervisor that you intend to file a child abuse report she tells you that you are being
overly suspicious. She directs you not to make the report. You should...
a. contact your supervisor's superior in order to see if the supervisor's decision can
be overruled
b. make the report
c. refrain from making the report and take no further action unless directed to do so
d. gather additional information so that you can provide your supervisor with a
stronger case to back up your suspicion, thereby gaining the supervisor's
permission to make the report

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 48 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

152. In order to facilitate the development of cohesion within a newly formed
multidisciplinary team under your supervision, you should facilitate a process in which
team members can...
a. handle their conflicts between themselves on a one to one basis outside of team
meetings
b. take their conflicts with other team members to their supervisor so that each
individual can find resolutions that will benefit all team members
c. air their conflicts and differences during team meetings so that they can work out
resolutions as a group
d. suppress their conflicts so that they do not interfere with work

153. As a licensed marriage and family therapist you are supervising a bright and
competent MFT Intern. The intern has had substantial previous experience as a
paraprofessional working on an acute psychiatric inpatient unit. Because you are
responsible for the quality of your supervisee's practices, you should...
a. review the supervisee's case documentation and process notes
b. interview clients without the supervisee present to inquire about their satisfaction
with the supervisee's services
c. directly observe occasional sessions by sitting in with the client and supervisee
d. review the supervisee's ease documentation and progress notes, and directly
observe occasional sessions by sitting in with the client and supervisee

154. Under California law, as an MFT in private practice you must see to it that your fee
for professional services is... .
a. within 25% of the customary fee charge by MFT’s in the local community
b. disclosed to the client or prospective client prior to the commencement of
treatment
c. reflective of your level of experience
d. posted at your private practice office

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 49

 

155. You are working with clients from Asian and Pacific Island cultures. You find your
clients most commonly consider three kinds of explanation regarding the cause of
behavioral dysfunctions. These explanations are likely to include all of the following
except one. Which one?
a. unconscious preoccupation with traumatic events in the individual's early life
b. unfortunate circumstances such as loss of a loved one, family conflict or job loss
c. violation of sacred community norms
d. physiological dysfunction

156. Your new client wants to be sure that the police will be unable to force you to reveal
information to them that he has revealed to you. You should explain to him that, under
California law, a marriage and family therapist’s client is entitled to privileged
communication...
a. only if the MFT has previously informed the client of this right
b. only when the services received from the MFT constitute applied psychotherapy
of a non-medical nature
c. under all circumstances except when a mandated report supercedes the privilege
d. for all information communicated to the marriage and family therapist with the
exception of identifying information and diagnosis

157. Your client, a young Latino man, refers to his condition as “susto.” He describes a
cluster of anxiety, depression and psychosomatic symptoms that he attributes to the fact
that he was severely frightened during a church service three months ago when he thought
he saw the ghost of his deceased mother. He assumes that his symptoms result from the
soul leaving the body. You should...
a. consider your client to be free of mental health problems because this symptom
pattern is specific to a particular culture
b. consider your client to have a mental health problem
c. respectfully help your client understand that soul loss is not the cause of his
symptoms
d. deny this client access to services designed for the mentally ill

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 50 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

158. You should explain to your clients that, in matters of privileged communication, the
"holder of the privilege" refers to all of the following except one. Which one?
a. the patient
b. the psychotherapist
c. the personal representative of a deceased patient
d. a patient's conservator

159. Among the clients on your multi-ethnic caseload you are likely to find that their
concept of proper versus improper expression of emotions varies according to an
individual's...
a. diagnosis
b. motivations
c. social status
d. preferences

160. Your new client is an anxious young man who states that his father is “Aho-Cuban”
and that his mother is “part Irish and part African American.” In determining your
client’s cultural identity, which of the following is least relevant?
a. the cultural reference groups as experienced by your client
b. your client’s racial heritage
c. your client’s language abilities and preference
d. your client’s current degree of involvement with one or another cultural
community

161. Your client is a new employee with a complex job. She has experienced
considerable stress because, in a new employee's orientation group she and other staff
have difficulty understanding the ground rules and role structure‘ of the team and larger
organization. She is unclear about her role, responsibilities and tasks in relation to other
members of the team. You should help your client understand that this orientation group
functions poorly with regard to...
a. socialization 
b. goal orientation
c. norm enforcement
d. group adaptation

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 51

162. Your psychotherapy patient expresses relief and comfort in knowing that his
communications to you can never be revealed to the criminal justice system. You should
help your patient understand that a patient’s communications to a psychotherapist are not
protected by privileged communication if...
a. the services of the psychotherapist were sought to enable anyone to commit a
crime
b. the patient dies
c. the communications were regarding individuals other than the patient
d. the psychotherapist believes that disclosure will be in the patient's best interest

163. You have brought together seven unrelated individuals to form an intensive,
exploratory psychotherapy group. During the early phases of building this group’s culture
you should...
a. make members aware of the importance of the group
b. encourage members to communicate through the therapist rather than through
chaotic direct communications with one another
c. promote norms of courtesy and self-containment
d. select natural group leaders from among those with the greatest leadership
potential

164. You are preparing a disengaged family for homework assignments in which they are
being asked to monitor and record evidence of the patterned ways in which family
members exchange influence. You should explain to your clients, in a language they
understand, that these patterns constitute...
a. family structure
b. habits and character traits
c. goal orientations
d. entropy

165. In what phase of your therapy group’s development should you expect to see
relationship patterns develop and roles become differentiated?
a. pre-group orientation
b. exploring and testing
c. cohesiveness
d. problem solving

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 52 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

166. The members of your client's dysfunctional family are preoccupied with conflicts
about who is in control. Family members form coalitions. These subgroups repeatedly
vie with one another for dominance within the family. Your assessment should show that
this family is at which stage of group development?
a. forming
b. storming (the early phase of exploring and testing)
c. norming (the later phase of exploration and testing)
d. performing (problem solving)

167. You are assigned to compose a new group among the members of a neighborhood
youth development program. You should select members for the group based on the
principle that too much homogeneity can lead to...
a. scapegoating
b. communication gaps
c. lack of stimulation
d. value conflicts

168. You have a practice of terminating an episode of treatment when the client's
presenting problems and sense of crisis are resolved, even though underlying personality
problems remain unresolved. You encourage clients to call again if other problems arise
in the future that might benefit from professional intervention. You reason that people
are most open to making changes in their lives at times of crisis and that this is when their
therapeutic encounters are most likely to be productive. Your orientation is best
characterized as...
a. Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy
b. the Crisis Intervention approach
c. a behavioral approach
d. Gestalt Therapy

169. You and your client disagree about appropriate goals and objectives. The client, a
person with strong narcissistic personality traits, first sought help because of depression.
He now says that he wants the primary goal of therapy to focus on how to become even
more attractive to women. In your opinion, the client needs help in developing self-
acceptance and self-esteem. In formulating a treatment plan you should...
a. agree to accept the client's goal
b. insist on your own goal, since it is based on your comprehensive assessment of the
client's needs
c. negotiate a common goal, recognizing how developing self-acceptance and self-
esteem are ways of becoming more attractive to women
d. terminate due to irreconcilable differences, but refer the client to another therapist
who might be able to genuinely accept his goal

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 53

170. John P. is a male client with schizophrenia who lives in a board and care home. He
has recently begun to act out sexually with women in the home, engaging in both verbal
assaults and physically intrusive behavior. Which of the following should you consider to
be least likely as a contributing cause?
a. loss of impulse control due to noncompliance with his medication regimen
b. loss of impulse control due to substance abuse
c. the client might have been sexually assaulted
d. mood disorder with psychotic symptoms

171. You are working with a client who is troubled by excessive guilt and low self-
esteem. In order to have a well sequenced and interrelated cluster of intervention
techniques with this client, which of the following techniques should you use?
a. open ended questions...clarification...interpretation
b. reassurance...confrontation...advice
c. closed ended questions...interpretation...confrontation
d. engagement...intervention...assessment

172. Your client has been experiencing a moderate degree of sadness, and severe
anhedonia most of the day, nearly every day for over two years. Appetite and sleep have
been affected, and the client has experienced occasional suicidal thoughts. The client was
experiencing several stressors prior to the onset of symptoms, and continues to experience
stressors now. You should diagnose your client’s condition as...
a. dysthymia 
b. major depressive disorder
c. adjustment disorder with depressed mood
d. mood disorder due to a general medical condition

173. Your client has experienced a need for markedly increased amounts of alcohol to
achieve the same intoxicating effects that he once experienced with lesser amounts. You
should identify this condition as...
a. persistent desire
b. withdrawal
c. tolerance
d. substance induced disorder

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 54 I MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

174. Not all chemically dependent clients are physiologically dependent. Some present
only with a compulsive use pattern. You should identify as “physiologically dependent”
those who experience...
a. tolerance and withdrawal
b. persistent desire to use the drug
c. recurrent use of a drug despite having medical problems which result from the
use of the drug
d. use of the drug during morning hours

175. You suspect that your client’s symptoms constitute a dysthymic disorder, although
you have not been trained in how to distinguish dysthymic disorder from other mood
disorders. You...
a. may formulate the diagnosis if you find that the client substantially meets criteria
in the DSM manual .
b. may formulate the diagnosis because diagnosis of mental disorders is within a
marriage and family therapist’s scope of practice
c. may not formulate the diagnosis unless your diagnosis is corroborated by another
mental health professional
d. may not formulate the diagnosis until you have become competent to do so

176. Your Humanistic Existential Therapy approach to clients ultimately seeks to
enhance their...  
a. direct experience of the authentic self
b. cognitive grasp of problem solving alternatives
c. conscious understanding of previously unconscious motives and conflicts
d. assertive expression of deeper emotions in relationships with others

177. Your client is a young man who is confused and frightened about the prospect of
living alone after his parents insisted that he move out of their house. In order to enhance
the client’s sense of integration in an experiential manner, you are taking a Humanistic
Existential Therapy approach. In this approach you should emphasize which of the
following techniques?
a. role play and in vivo practice of peak experience skills
b. maintaining a daily log of spiritual and other peak experiences, and rating their
degree of intensity
c. clarification, interpretation and explanation of the circumstances giving rise to
peak experience
d. guided imagery and use of symbolic art work

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 55

 

178. When taking the perspective of Humanistic Existential Therapy in your Work with
highly anxious clients, you should recognize that self-fragmentation leads to...
a. false identifications
b. development of the Fair Witness
c. the transpersonal Self
d. the authentic self

179. Your client asks for help in restoring a sense of purpose and meaning to “my
retched ordinary existence.” You have successfully used religious and spiritual symbols
with other similar clients in the course of guided imagery exercises. If you were to
introduce religious symbols into a guided imagery exercise with this client Without first
describing your anticipated interventions you would have...
a. failed to obtain informed consent
b. violated the separation of church and state
c. violated your scope of competence
d. engaged in gross negligence

180. You are establishing a private practice after years of employment in an agency.
When setting fees with your clients in your private practice, you will be subject to
suspension or revocation of your license if you...
a. set a fee greater than the true value of your service
b. accept prospective payment in advance of future sessions
c. fail to post a rate schedule in a clearly visible manner at the location where
services are rendered
d. first disclose your fee after the commencement of treatment rather than before

181. As a marriage and family therapist, the law requires that your psychotherapy
services must...
a. be aimed at resolving symptoms of a diagnosable mental disorder
b. involve more than one individual as the client
c. be based on a distinct theoretical orientation
d. be performed with individuals, couples, or groups for the purpose of achieving
more adequate, satisfying, and productive marriage and family adjustments

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 56 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

182. A 14 year old seeks your help for an undisclosed problem that she doesn’t want her
parents to know about. She asks to see you for help without their knowledge. If you
provide non-emergency outpatient mental health treatment to this minor under the laws
allowing for “minor consent” you... 
a. may provide psychotherapy and refer her for psychotropic medications
b. may not hold the parents liable for payment for the services unless they participate
c. must include the minor’s parent or guardian
d. must honor the parent’s or guardian’s right to terminate treatment

183. Your client tells you that, immediately following the session, he is going to kill his
wife because she said that she wants a divorce. You consider this to be a credible threat.
Your first action should be to...
a. notify your supervisor for approval to release this information
b. obtain the client’s permission to release this information, explaining that by
warning his wife you will be protecting him from an act that will ultimately hurt
himself .
c. speak with the wife to confirm whether or not she has decided to divorce him, in
order to determine whether or not his story is accurate.....if she confirms the story,
then reveal the threat
d. notify the police and the wife

184. Your client is a severely depressed individual who suffers from low self-esteem and
extreme self-doubt. She engages in a variety of self-defeating behaviors and tends to
have negative expectations about the eventual outcome of all her endeavors. You should
expect that this client is likely to harbor attributions that are...
a. specific versus general
b. variable versus fixed
c. internal versus external
d. isolated versus intimate

185. Your new client is a deeply depressed homeless woman who experiences fleeting
hallucinations, illusions and other perceptual distortions. She has been socially isolated
and has a variety of health problems. When working with this individual, which of the
following should you do first?
a. ascertain the client’s unmet need beyond the presenting problem
b. determine the extent to which either insufficient motivation, capacity or
opportunity are causing the client’s coping problems
c. set short term goals within a specified time limit in order to mobilize energy
d. socialize the individual into the role of client

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 57

 

186. Your client has sought your help in dealing with an extreme fear of pigeons and
other birds. The client is not psychologically minded and has no interest in understanding
the cause or effects of her phobia. You offer a course of systematic desensitization,
which the client willingly accepts. Which of the following activities should you engage
in first?
a. identify a variety of threatening situations
b. rate the intensity of the client’s anxiety associated with a variety of threatening
situations
c. teach the client deep relaxation techniques
d. explain behavioral analysis procedures to the client

187. When using respondent behavior oriented intervention techniques with an anxious
client, which of the following activities should you engage in first?
a. engage the client in behavioral contracting
b. identify the precise maladaptive behaviors to be changed
c. specify the desired adaptive behaviors to be acquired
d. specify the learning procedures to be followed 8

188. When using reciprocal inhibition in a Behavioral Therapy approach to a client with
obsessive compulsive disorder, you and the client should...
a. focus on using positive reinforcement
b. suppress an anxiety response by eliciting a relaxation response in the presence of
the anxiety provoking stimulus
c. present stimuli that are associated with anxiety for long periods of time until they
lose their capacity to evoke anxiety
d. suppress a behavior by presenting an aversive stimulus

189. If your private practice client has failed to make payment you...
a. may not use a collection agency because revealing your client’s name to the
agency would breach confidentiality
b. may not use a collection agency because this is an adversarial act that would
violate the integrity of the therapeutic alliance
c. may use a collection agency if the client provides specific written consent to do so
d. may use a collection agency if you have informed the client prior to entering the
therapeutic relationship that this is among your payment practices

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 58 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

190. Your client is a six year old child. His parents complain that he is inconsiderate and
lacks empathy. Your assessment indicates that he is cognitively unable to take another
person’s perspective. Even though the child can imitate another person’s apparent
behavior, the child is cognitively incapable of true empathy. This child’s incapacity is
best described as...
a. narcissistic personality disorder
b. narcissistic personality trait
c. egocentrism
d. perceptual dominance

191. Your client is three months behind in paying for services which you have provided.
‘Which of the following statements is true in this situation.
a. you may deny the client access to the clinical record only if therapy has been
terminated
b. you may deny the client access to the clinical record only if therapy has been
terminated directly as a result of the failure to make payments
c. you may not deny the client access to the clinical record if it is needed for
treatment solely on the grounds of an unpaid bill
d. you may deny the client access to the clinical record unless the request to see the
record is for the purpose of confirming the amount owed

192. When engaging your client in an assessment of dysfunctional automatic thoughts,
you should focus on how...
a. cognitions lead to emotional responses
b. emotions lead to cognitions
c. behavioral inclinations lead to emotional responses
d. behavioral inclinations lead to cognitions

193. When conducting an assessment using the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy approach,
you should recognize that selective abstractions are dysfunctional automatic thoughts in
which...
a. the individual engages in “all or none” thinking using rigid dichotomies
b. the significance of the evidence is undervalued
c. mental filters are used to draw a conclusion from a small, selected portion of the
available information
d. a person erroneously assumes responsibility for external problems where little or
no responsibility exists

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 59

194. Your assessment indicates that the client’s marital problem of persistent polarized
conflicts is the result of projected ambivalences. You recommend a course of individual
Psychodynamic Psychotherapy to resolve the ambivalences, but the client states that he is
only willing to participate in Conjoint Therapy to develop better negotiation and conflict
resolution skills with his wife. His wife is also willing to participate in Conjoint Therapy.
You are not familiar with techniques for developing such skills. Your first course of
action should be to...
a. refer the client to a psychologist or psychiatrist
b. explain that learned communication skills will be lost if the underlying
ambivalence is not resolved
c. ask the client to return for therapy after you have obtained training in
communication skill development
d. explain your understanding of the problem and recommendation but if the client
persists in rejecting individual therapy, refer to a therapist who can provide the
requested service

195. Your client has sought your help in managing her five year old child’s angry
outbursts. If you were using a Behavioral approach, you would work with this client and
her child by using the process of behavioral specification in which you and the client
will...
a. identify the problem and the particular behaviors which constitute the problem
b. reward successive approximations of a desired behavior
c. arrange for an aversive stimulus to follow a specific problem behavior
d. use role play with well focused feedback regarding the client’s skill acquisition

196. In order for a client to give informed consent to treatment...
a. the client must be informed of potential risks of refusing treatment
b. the client must be adequately informed of significant information concerning
treatment processes and procedures
c. the client must be age 18 or older
d. all of the above

197. In planning a program of community resources for any and all individuals with
Asperger’s disorder, you should anticipate that most of the individuals needing these
services will...
a. be children
b. be adults
c. have a co-occurring diagnosis of mental retardation
d. have a co-occurring diagnosis of autistic disorder

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 60 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS
 

198. You will be providing behavioral therapy with an extremely anxious client. Which
of the following treatment techniques should you use first?
a. gradually expose the client to anxiety provoking situations
b. teach relaxation techniques
c. establish baseline anxiety levels in a variety of situations
d. teach relapse prevention techniques

199. You have direct knowledge of a professional colleague's impairment of practice
effectiveness due to the early stages of dementia. Your first course of action should be
to...
a. notify your professional association
b. notify the California Board of Behavioral Sciences
c. consult with that colleague when feasible and assist him or her to take remedial
action
d. notify your colleague's clients and the police

200. Insight oriented therapy is most effective after an individual develops
metacognition, the capacity to think clearly about one's own thought processes. In
developing treatment plans, you should recognize that this quality, and experimental
thinking, become developmentally appropriate at what age?
a. between ages 2 and 4
b. between ages 6 and 7
c. between ages 8 and 11
d. between ages 12 and 18

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

