MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 401

 

on the basis of a client's problems, goals and objectives, not on the basis of this kind of
issue.

58*. The correct answer is B. The AAMFT Code of Ethics requires that informed
consent be obtained from clients except “When persons, due to age or mental status, are
legally incapable of giving informed consent...” A person is not legally incapable of
giving informed consent simply because a person is being involuntarily detained.
\n Marriage and family therapists are sometimes employed in agencies such as psychiatric
hospitals in which clients are involuntarily detained and treated. When clients receive
involuntary services, an ethical therapist should provide information about the nature and
extent of services and about the extent of the clients’ right to refuse services. Note that
even clients in an involuntary service maintain the right to refuse certain kinds of services
within the involuntary setting. This may apply to medications, electroconvulsive therapy,
or services which may be prohibited by a client’s religious beliefs. The client may also be
entitled to choose the treatment method or treatment goals and objectives.
\n A is incorrect because the responsibility to obtain informed consent applies to clients of
all ages, to the extent that the client is capable of giving informed consent. C is incorrect
because the code of ethics does not make exception for people involuntarily held. D is
incorrect because the ethical responsibility applies regardless of the client’s attitude 1
toward the form of treatment being used. Even if the client accepts the form of treatment
being used, the client should still be informed of options in terms of treatment processes
or procedures.

59*. The correct answer is D. You may recommend referral to your supervisee, even
I though this amounts to a referral to yourself. There is some risk of dual relationship here,
especially if your relationship with your consultee is one in which the power differential
between the two of you leaves the consultee vulnerable to undue influence. However, a
consultative relationship is one in which the consultee is free to accept or reject the
consultant’s advice and suggestions. It is different than a supervisory relationship in
which a supervisor has the authority to direct the work of the supervisee. Keep in mind
that if your consultee did refer one of his clients to your supervisee for supplementary
hypnotherapy, this means that you might be hearing about the case from two parties,
which could provide you with information that would make it possible for you to
determine the identity of the client. Because of this potential, both your supervisee and
consultee should inform any mutual client of the nature of this potential conflict of
interest. A is incorrect because a referral to your MFT Intern is, in effect, a referral to
you, and you may not pay a fee in exchange for referrals. By reducing your consultation
fee you are, in effect, paying a fee to your consultee. B is incorrect because discussion of
hypnotherapy would not, in and of itself, constitute a conflict of interest. In fact, it could
be detrimental to your consultee and his client if you were aware of a potentially
beneficial resource that you unnecessarily avoided discussing. C is incorrect because you
are not necessarily required to refrain from recommending your supervisee, any more than

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009
