MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS   Page 42 1

 

depression occurs in only about 10% to 15% of new mothers, a much lower incidence
than for the sub-clinical condition "baby blues." C is incorrect because postpartum
psychosis is even less prevalent, and almost always occurs with clinical depression. D is
incorrect because the term "postpartum somatoform disorder" is not commonly
recognized in clinical practice. It was invented for this exam.

130*. The correct answer is A. In Structural Family Therapy, inflexible structure refers
to the family that is unable to change its relationship patterns as their situation changes.
B is incorrect because problems of resonance refers to how enmeshed or disengaged
family members are with one another. C is incorrect because lack of differentiation is a
concept from Bowenian Multigenerational Family Therapy which refers to a lack of
distinction between thinking and feeling, as well as between self and others in the family.
D is incorrect because self-alienation is a Humanistic Existential Therapy concept related
to self-fragmentation and a lack of self-acceptance. A

131*. The correct answer is C. A predictable daily routine provides structure and a sense
of security and reduced stress. It helps a person establish a sense of control over oneself
and one's environment. A is incorrect because competitive activities can be threatening
and can exacerbate fears and suspicions. It would be better to recommend solitary
pleasurable activities such as crafts, or quiet non-competitive activities with a relatively
trusted friend or family member. B is incorrect because you would do better to respond
to the client's accusations in a calm, unambiguous, and matter of fact manner, not
emphatically. D is incorrect because people who are overly suspicious (i.e. paranoid)
may tend to view touch as threatening as well as an invasion of their boundaries.

132*. The correct answer is B. Circumstantiality involves thought and speech which
becomes diverted from the main point by incidental detail. People with obsessive
compulsive personality traits, including people with obsessive compulsive personality
disorder, often engage in circumstantiality in their pursuit of excessive orderliness and
perfectionism. A is incorrect because narcissism involves grandiosity, a need for
admiration, and a lack of empathy. It is not particularly related to circumstantiality. C is
incorrect because schizotypal qualities involve acute discomfort in close relationships,
cognitive or perceptual distortions, and behavior eccentricities, not circumstantiality. D is
incorrect because people with obsessive qualities use circumstantiality as a way of
managing their own anxiety, not to establish relationships with others.

133*. The correct answer is D. Federal HIPAA regulations require that a client be
granted access to clinical records except when such access would cause serious physical
injury or death. A, B and C are incorrect because these exceptions are not provided for in
either HIPAA regulations or in California’s Patient Access to Records Act. A is also
incorrect because, for all practical purposes it is irrelevant. Most of the time third parties
who are referred to in the record would not even be aware that the client sought to review
the record.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

