MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 439

 

operational” stage of cognitive development. D is incorrect because oral eccentric
personality is also not a behavioral science concept. The term was invented for purposes
of this question.

198*. The correct answer is B. People with obsessive compulsive personalities tend to
be circumstantial as they deviate from the key issues of conversation and focus on
irrelevant detail. It’s not long before the listener becomes bored. A is incorrect because
people with obsessive compulsive personalities tend to be counterdependent and
controlling, often through passive strategies. They are not likely to evoke a sense of
overprotectiveness as might be the case when working with a client who has a dependent
personality. C is incorrect because guilt tends to be aroused when working with clients
who are dependent, masochistic, or borderline, not obsessive compulsive. D is incorrect
because embarrassment tends to be evoked by clients with narcissistic personalities, not
obsessive compulsive.

199*. The correct answer is C. Cultural diversity in a group allows group members to
see themselves from the perspective of others who do not necessarily share their
previously untested assumptions. This can lead to stimulation and growth. A is incorrect
because diversity in a group tends to inhibit a sense of mutual identification initially.
However, if the group can be guided through stages of healthy group development and
achieve a sense of cohesion, group members can develop a mutual identification as they
share their Valuing of cultural diversity itself. B is incorrect because the stimulation of
different cultural perspectives is likely to be stimulating rather than relaxing and, at least
initially, arouse a sense of threat as one’s familiar assumptions are challenged. D is
incorrect because cultural diversity can contribute to either effective or ineffective group
process, depending on the group’s norms and ground rules, and the support for group
development provided by group leadership.

200*. The correct answer is B. Olfactory hallucinations, like tactile or kinesthetic
hallucinations, indicate a likely organic cause such as brain injury, brain tumor, or
intoxication. A is incorrect because recalling of pleasant memories does not cause
hallucinations of any kind. C is incorrect because there is no evidence that people tend to
generate recurrent hallucinations to serve a psychodynamic function. Hallucinations,
especially olfactory hallucinations, are organically caused. D is incorrect because
schizophrenia characteristically causes auditory hallucinations, and sometimes visual
hallucinations, but it is not likely to cause olfactory hallucinations.

