Page 400 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

of compulsive sexual behaviors. These need to be discussed openly and non-
judgmentally.

54*. The correct answer is B. Stimulant abuse clients do not often recognize the
connections between the use of "secondary drugs" and their stimulant addiction. But
these other drugs have commonly become triggers to stimulant abuse because of the
strong association that has become established. If Pavlov's dogs could learn to salivate in
response to hearing a bell, it's not hard to see how a stimulant abuser could learn to crave
stimulants in response to tobacco, caffeine or marijuana use. A is incorrect because
tobacco and caffeine use should be discouraged if they have become triggers, even though
they are legal substances. Several ‘studies have shown that people who give up smoking
concurrently with giving up use of other drugs such as alcohol, stimulants, or marijuana
have better recovery rates than people who continue smoking while working on
abstinence from other drugs. C is incorrect because it describes the correct action
(encouraging the client to abstain from all three drugs) but for the wrong reason. This
client's goal is to overcome his stimulant dependence, not to develop a healthy lifestyle.
Help the client develop a healthy lifestyle, but only if it is for the purpose of helping him
accomplish his primary goal. D is incorrect because it is contrary to the findings of the
research studies described above. 

55*. The correct answer is C. It is this responsibility for, and commensurate authority to
control the quality of services being provided by the intern that distinguishes supervision
from consultation. A, B and D may be desirable qualities of a supervisor, but they are not
required by the law governing MFT supervisory relationships with MFT’s.

56*. The correct answer is C. Child abuse has occurred when any person depicts a child
in, or “knowingly develops, duplicates, prints, or exchanges, any film, photograph, video
tape, negative, or slide in which a child is engaged in an act of obscene sexual conduct...”
A is incorrect because peace officers are not held liable for child abuse when they injure a
minor as a result of using “reasonable and necessary force to quell a disturbance
threatening physical injury to person or damage to property, for purposes of self-defense,
to obtain possession of weapons or other dangerous objects within the control of a child,
or to apprehend an escapee.” B is incorrect because the Child Abuse Reporting Act does
not apply to “acts which may reasonably be construed to be normal caretaker
responsibilities...” D is incorrect because this law does not apply to acts performed for a
valid medical purpose. If a physician touches the genitals of a minor during a medical
examination to which the minor’s parents have consented, the act does not become
reportable by virtue of the fact that the minor did not want to be examined.

57*. The correct answer is A. This approach does not refer to Ms. B and maintains her
confidentiality. B is incorrect because it reveals something that you said to Ms. B, as well
as confirming that she is your client. It is a violation of her confidentiality. C and D are
incorrect because these approaches confirm that Ms. B is your client, which is a violation
of her confidentiality. D is also incorrect because a treatment modality should be selected

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

