MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 387

 

her identity to the referral agency. D is incorrect because, even though it is true that you
must accept the client’s right to refuse a referral, there is no reason why this is the only
thing you should do. Answer B also accepts the client’s right to refuse the referral, but
takes the constructive step of helping the client to take a positive action on her own
behalf.

8*. The correct answer is A. Depression commonly manifests as irritability among
children. B is incorrect because borderline personality disorder is a diagnosis requiring
that the symptom pattern be “pervasive” in the sense of “life long.” A symptom pattern
cannot be reasonably predicted to be “life long” on the basis of pre-adolescent life
experience alone. Also, although irritability is one of many features of borderline
personality disorder, none of the other features are described in this question. C and D
are incorrect because, even though these features should be addressed in a
biopsychosocial assessment of any client, they are not as specifically indicated by
“irritability” or “grouchiness” as is depression.

9*. The correct answer is C. In the standard treatment of panic disorder this is referred to
as “facing the symptoms.” A person with panic disorder usually inadvertently makes
things worse by trying to intentionally manage the symptoms, even though they are
characterized by reflexive autonomic hyperactivity. A is incorrect because autonomic
hyperactivity cannot be consciously controlled. This approach will only continue to make
things worse. B is incorrect because this approach could give the illusion of being able to
consciously manage a panic attack, and because the symptoms will spontaneously
extinguish whether or not the individual tries to exaggerate the experience. D is incorrect
because the symptoms of a panic attack are so intense that distraction would be extremely
difficult. It is true that distraction could enhance the individual’s ability to allow the
symptoms, but even using this line of reasoning C is the better answer because it
addresses the ultimate purpose of using distraction. 

10*. The correct answer is A. Dialectic Behavioral Therapy uses an eclectic combination
of group therapy, individual therapy and case management services over a 1 year period.
It is an expensive form of treatment because of its intensity, frequency of sessions and
duration. As a result, many have borrowed aspects of DBT (such as psychoeducational
group therapy which focuses on interpersonal skills, distress tolerance/reality acceptance,
and skills in regulating emotions) and claim to be using a DBT model, but these
fragmented approaches do not maintain fidelity to the model. Note that the question asks
about “the classic Dialectic Behavioral Therapy model.” B, C and D are incorrect
because they describe aspects of DBT, but the classic DBT model is not “primarily” any
one of these....it is an eclectic combination of these interventions. B and C are also
incorrect because they refer to a time frame much shorter than a year.

11*. The correct answer is A. People with conduct disorder, antisocial personality
disorder, and others who are abusive and exploitive toward others often lack a sense of
empathy because they are not in touch with their own affective experience. This is often

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

