Page 414 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

may be taken at baseline and then compared to a SUDS score at some other point in time.
For example, a person’s SUDS score at baseline might have been at 8, in other words,
80% of the highest level of anxiety ever experienced. The person’s score might be at 5 a
few months later. This means that the person’s score became five-eighths of the score at
baseline...not five times more than the score at baseline. C is also incorrect because a
SUDS level indicates a person’s experience in relation to their own subjectively
experienced extremes, not in relation to a particular other point in time. D is incorrect
because a SUDS level compares a person’s level of distress to their own frame of
reference, not to norms established by other people’s experience. That’s partly why it is
called a “subjective” units of distress scale.

102*. The correct answer is A. Homework assignments are used in Structural Family
Therapy to evaluate structure, flexibility, and resonance, and to teach new patterns of
communicating and relating. B is incorrect because paradoxical instruction is used in
Strategic Family Therapy. C is incorrect because the non-directive stance described here
is characteristic of some Humanistic Existential approaches to psychotherapy. It is not
often the focus in Family Therapy approaches. D is incorrect because it is Bowenian
Multigenerational Therapy that locates the best differentiated family member, known as
the “leader,” and then focuses therapy sessions on work with that individual.

103*. The correct answer is C. A closed system is one that has a relatively low degree of
“energy exchange” with its social environment. This means relatively little
communication, economic or social exchange. A is incorrect because steady state refers
to the way in which a social system tends to maintain behavior within a given range of
variation. B is incorrect because homeostasis refers to the way in which a social system
maintains a state of steady balance as conditions change. The family described in the
question may be in either steady state or homeostasis, but these issues are not directly
relevant to the family’s lack of exchange with the social environment. D is incorrect
because, in clinical practice, incestuous refers to specific patterns of sexual relationship
which should not be confused with more general family dynamic issues. A truly
incestuous family is likely to be a relatively closed system, but most families which are
closed systems are not truly incestuous.

104*. The correct answer is A. Treatment for symptoms of personality disorder is
generally not very effective, and people with personality disorders usually do not seek
treatment for their symptoms because they are ego syntonic. Therefore, therapy usually
focuses on resolving specific problems which may have arisen because of the symptoms,
and helping with situational needs that the client is unable to meet because of the
symptoms. B is incorrect because people with schizoid personality disorder tend to be
detached from others. They have few relationships and, therefore, few relationship
conflicts. C is incorrect because the client is not likely to be motivated to engage in the
kind of deep psychodynamic work that would be involved in making such a change, nor
would the client likely choose to work toward a goal such as “enhancing the quality of
relationships.” D is also incorrect because the client is not likely to be motivated to

