MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS   Page 389

 

because it is unnecessarily disruptive to the client's course of treatment. This course of
action might be needed later on if the client remains fixed or preoccupied with sexualized
fantasies about the relationship with the therapist, but most of the time these feelings can
be worked through so that the client's energy can be redirected to pursuing the goals and
objectives of treatment.

15*. The correct answer is A. The purpose is not to avoid attention to affect altogether,
but to contain it just enough to establish a safe pace of ventilation and self-exploration. B
is incorrect because, although it refers to a nonjudgmental stance it actually takes a
position of judging what the client is feeling. If the client feels embarrassed and
overexposed, the therapist should accept that. This approach could lead to the client's
attempt to suppress or repress her feelings of embarrassment, which could lead, in turn, to
further overexposure and premature termination. C is incorrect because it is not the first
thing you should do, even though it may be helpful later on and when the timing is right.
D is incorrect because conjoint sessions may be indicated for some other therapeutic
purpose, but should not be arranged simply to help the mother contain her
overventilation. There are more direct, simpler ways of doing that, as described in
answer A.

16*. The correct answer is D. Any of these four statements would be appropriate issues
for this client to address in treatment. However, only one, answer D, is most specific and
observable, with a stated duration and within a specified time frame. These are the
qualities of a well formulated objective. A is incorrect because "depression" is not
reliably observable. Many of the components of depression are observable, such as
reduced activity level and sleep disturbance, but answer A does not refer to these
observable indicators. B is incorrect because appetite is not observable. Food intake can
be described in specific and observable terms, but that is not the same as appetite. C is
incorrect because "precrisis level of functioning" is not specific (what aspect of
functioning?) and because there is no target date expressed.

17 *. The correct answer is D. All of the answers are relevant to assessing a person who
is depressed, but D is the only answer that is relevant to distinguishing between major
depressive disorder and dysthymia. Maj or depressive disorder involves depression most
of the day nearly every day for at least two weeks, whereas dysthymic disorder involves
depression most of the day, more days than not, over two years or more. A is incorrect
because both major depression and dysthymia can involve vegetative symptoms. B is
incorrect because this information is needed to distinguish these diagnoses from a
substance induced disorder, not from each other. C is incorrect because both major
depression and dysthymia can involve suicidality.

18*. The correct answer is A. This requirement is stated in the AAMFT Code of Ethics
as follows: “Marriage and family therapists obtain appropriate informed consent to
therapy or related procedures as early as feasible in the therapeutic relationship, and use
language that is reasonably understandable to clients.” B is incorrect because the initial

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

