Page 434 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

expectation that he or she should be your most important client. The clients want to be
your “best client,” not to share you with their peers. D is incorrect because group
members tend to maintain a distance during the orientation stage. Concerns about getting
too close are much more likely to be aroused during the stage of cohesion when a shared
group identity crystalizes and members feel very close to one another.

177*. The correct answer is B. Private events are thoughts, perceptions, evaluations and
self-statements that mediate the effects of stimulus conditions and, therefore, influence
the way people choose to respond to those conditions. A is incorrect because Cognitive
Therapy focuses on the ways in which our cognitive appraisals lead to our emotions. C is
incorrect because “private events” refers to cognitive processes, not interpersonal
processes. D is incorrect because Cognitive Therapy relates to thoughts, not experience
or one’s “sense” of things. Also, fragmentation of the self is of much greater concern in
Humanistic Existential Therapy, with very little, if any, attention in Cognitive Therapy.

178*. The correct answer is A. After agreeing that the psychologist will make the report,
you only have an obligation to report if you later learn that the person designated to make
the report failed to do so. B is incorrect because the written report must only be signed by
the person designated to make the report (see Penal Code Sec. 11166 (c)). C is incorrect
because the law only requires the designated individual to make the report whenever two
or more mandated reporters come to agreement on designating such an individual. D is
incorrect because the question says that both you and the psychologist have a reasonable
suspicion that the child’s statement is true, and reports are required when a mandated
reporter has a reasonable suspicion that abuse has occurred.

179*. The correct answer is D. The “domestic violence reporting law” only requires a
report when the abuse comes to the health care practitioner’s attention because he or she
provides medical services for a physical condition which he or she reasonably suspects is
a wound or other physical injury that was inflicted by the patient’s own act, or by another
where the injury was caused by means of a deadly weapon. A is incorrect because you
have an obligation to protect this client’s confidentiality, and there is no legal obligation '
or permission to violate your confidentiality obligation. B is incorrect because the
“domestic violence reporting law” does include marriage and family therapists as health
practitioners (see Penal Code Sec. 11165.8). C is incorrect because the client’s consent to
report would permit you to report, but it would still not obligate you to report.

180*. The correct answer is B. According to Jay Haley and many other family therapy
theorists, the experienced family therapist views each family member as a contributor to
the family’s problem, an essential part of a continuing sequence of behavior among all
people involved. A is incorrect because this perspective views everyone else in the
family as the cause of the child’s problem, while ignoring the social systems principle
that each member of a social system influences each other member and the system as a
whole. C is incorrect because the experienced family therapist intervenes to change a
sequence of behavior among people, not to get an individual to change. D is incorrect

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

