Page 420 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

requested and needed for a client’s treatment solely because payment has not been
received for past services, except as otherwise provided by law.” The code does not
allow any exceptions to this principle. A is incorrect because the code of ethics prohibits
denial of access based solely on the issue of payment. B and D are incorrect because the
principle does not allow any exceptions.

126*. The correct answer is D. This would be an acceptable practice because the amount
of funds is small and because the client is unaware of your identity as the donor. If this
became a regular practice to the point where you felt compelled to provide the funds or
had ambivalent feelings about it, this would raise problems. But in this instance the
question simply says that you would like to provide the client with the funds. It would be
best to register this transaction as a contribution to the "petty cash" fund when the clerk
returns. A is incorrect because the contribution is not one of significant value, because
you want to make the contribution, and because you can do so without letting the client
know the source of the funds. B is incorrect because there is no indication that your
client would feel dependent or guilty. B could also be a problem because your agency
might not have liability insurance to cover volunteers, and because others who receive
contributions from the "petty cash" fund may not be asked by their case managers to
provide volunteer service. C is incorrect because the client is under time pressure to get
to his medical appointment, and this approach would essentially be asking the client to
beg from one staff member to another until he found one who was willing to make a
contribution.

127*. The correct answer is C. This approach will help to de-escalate the tension. A is
incorrect because the client might perceive touch as an assault or violation of his personal
space. When interviewing a belligerent client it is best to remain at a distance. B is
incorrect because you can provoke a challenge by appearing invulnerable. Most
therapists in this situation will naturally feel uncertainty, embarrassment, or fear of
damaging the therapeutic alliance. Also, an artificial show of invulnerability is likely to
be at odds with your nonverbal communication. D is incorrect because interpretations
often stimulate suspicion in a client who tends to be paranoid.

128*. The correct answer is D. Individuals who need institutional placement are those
who are a danger to self or others, or who are gravely disabled. This is the most severe
level of need listed among the four possible answers. A is incorrect because people with
the same diagnosis might present very different levels of risk and need. B is incorrect
because a person who presents such an imminent danger that he or she is at risk of
institutional placement is in much greater need than someone who is abusing substances
but is relatively stable in the community and functioning adequately. Not everyone who
abuses substances presents a serious, imminent risk. C is incorrect because someone
could be on the caseload for a very long time even though he or she is stable at present.

129*. The correct answer is A. Approximately 50% of new mothers experience this
syndrome for up to about two weeks after childbirth. B is incorrect because clinical

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

