MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 399

 

disorders. There is no reason to assume that your client’s conduct disturbance is
necessarily due to anxiety. C is incorrect because exposure and response prevention is
specifically used in the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder. The individual is
exposed to the stimulus that arouses the compulsions and is then prevented from
engaging in the compulsive behavior. D is incorrect because a Wellness Recovery Action
Plan is primarily used in the treatment of serious and persistent mental illness such as
schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Its principles may have some relevance to people with
any kind of mental illness, but it is not as specifically related to conduct disorder as is
parent training.

51*. The correct answer is A. The AAMFT Code of Ethics states that “Marriage and
family therapists disclose to clients and other interested parties, as early as feasible in
their professional contacts, the nature of confidentiality and possible limitations regarding
the clients’ right to confidentiality.” The limitations on confidentiality are established in
the law, but California law does not require that the therapist inform the client about these
limitations. Federal HIPAA regulations do require that clients be informed of the
provider’s “privacy practices,” but this question addresses state law. B and D are
incorrect because this is an ethical responsibility stated in the profession’s code of ethics.
C is incorrect because California law does not require such a disclosure.

52*. The correct answer is C. The MFT license law states that a license can be
suspended or revoked due to an MFT “Administering to himself or herself any controlled
substance or using of any of the dangerous drugs specified in Section 4211, or of any
alcoholic beverage to the extent, or in a manner, as to be dangerous or injurious to the
person applying for a registration or license or holding a registration or license under this
chapter, or to any other person...” A is incorrect because use of a drug without a
prescription would not necessarily be dangerous or injurious to the MFT or any other
person. B is incorrect because the law doesn’t apply only to those who refuse treatment,
nor does the law waive this provision if the MFT accepts treatment and recovery services.
D is incorrect because the image of one’s professional status is not the issue. Actual
danger to self or others is the issue.

53*. The correct answer is C. Note the word "except" in the question. You should
discourage the sharing of so-called "war stories" which are likely to include euphoric
recall and selective memory regarding positive aspects of one's substance use history.
These "war stories" can be powerful relapse triggers. A is incorrect because the client
needs to recognize the rewards experienced in relation to substance use in order to better
find alternative, healthier ways of satisfying those needs. Such discussion is different
than sharing "war stories" because it is more cognitive and reflective, rather than a matter
of re-experiencing. Also, this discussion should be balanced with a discussion of the
negative and delayed consequences of use, as described in answer A. B is incorrect
because you should remind your client that proper sleep and nutrition are necessary to
allow the neurobiology of the brain to recover from his stimulant abuse. D is incorrect
because research has shown a significant correlation between stimulant use and a variety

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

