Page 396 , MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

follows: “Marriage and family therapists do not abandon or neglect clients in treatment
without making reasonable arrangements for the continuation of such treatment.” A, B
and D are incorrect because a marriage and family therapist could terminate a client under
any of these conditions as long as the therapist makes reasonable arrangements for the
continuation of treatment. For example, assume that a marriage and family therapist was
employed at a low salary to provide services to acutely ill clients with serious mental ‘
illness, all of whom wanted to continue the relationship, but the therapist accepted a
higher paying job at another agency in another city. That therapist could terminate with
all clients on the current caseload without violating ethical standards regarding
abandonment, as long as the therapist arranged for transfer or referral to another therapist,
as needed.

41*. The correct answer is A. When clients receive involuntary services, you should
provide them with information about the nature and extent of services and about the
extent of the client’s right to refuse services. A client usually has options, even when
treatment is part of a probation plan. For example, the individual might be able to choose
between individual or group therapy, or the individual might be able to choose between
therapy and jail time. And even when an individual is in treatment as part of a probation
plan, the client still has the right to accept or reject various treatment techniques or
strategies. B is incorrect because it is the client, not the probation officer, who has a right
to choose goals and objectives, even though involuntary clients might give their probation
officer the right to review the treatment plan. C is incorrect because this would be a
violation of your client’s confidentiality. D is incorrect because this would also be a
violation of your client’s right to confidentiality, unless such disclosure was ordered by
the court or consented to by your client.

42*. The correct answer is B. The AAMFT Code of Ethics prohibits a marriage and
family therapist from revealing clinical information to collection agencies. According to
the Code of Ethics “Marriage and family therapists give reasonable notice to clients with
unpaid balances of their intent to seek collection by agency or legal recourse. When such
action is taken, therapists will not disclose clinical information.” C and D are incorrect
because there are no qualifications on this prohibition. Duration of treatment and number
of sessions attended is clinical information because it could be seen as an indicator of the
severity or complexity of the client’s clinical problem. A is incorrect because you are not
limited to providing only the client’s name and address. For example, you may reveal the
client’s phone number and amount of the unpaid balance. The important thing is to not
reveal clinical information.

43*. The correct answer is D. Behavioral specification is a three point assessment
procedure in which a client specifies particular behaviors which define a problem,
establishes a baseline of the specified behaviors prior to intervention, and specifies the
antecedents and consequences associated with emission of the problem behavior. A is
incorrect because behavioral specification is primarily an assessment procedure, not a
planning procedure. Although its principles could be applied to treatment planning, they

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

