Page 410 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

treatment planning issues. D is incorrect because your client is not trained in diagnostic
formulation. She can tell you what her symptoms mean to her, but she is probably not
capable of determining that they constitute one syndrome rather than another.

88*. The correct answer is D. These three elements - course of action, objectives, and
time or target date - are the key elements of all treatment plans. A is incorrect because
your theoretical orientation is not usually subject to planning, even though the choice of
treatment modality is. Theoretical orientation is not addressed in a standard treatment
plan. B is incorrect because treatment plans usually need to be stated in the practitioner’s
words, especially if it is to be well formulated for purposes of validating medical
necessity. Many programs list the goal or goals in the client’s own words, but specific,
observable objectives, treatment modality and time frame are usually stated by the _
practitioner. C is incorrect because this question doesn’t provide enough information to
know whether the client’s depression, living situation, or both need to be the focus of
intervention.

89*. The correct answer is C. You have an ethical obligation to not engage in physical
contact with clients when there is a possibility of resulting psychological harm to the
client. Ethical standards recognize that there are forms of appropriate physical contact in
therapy. If you do engage in appropriate physical contact you are responsible for setting
clear, appropriate, and culturally sensitive boundaries that govern such contact. This
principle allows for physical contact under some circumstances, but it would be
extremely difficult to meet the challenge of setting clear, appropriate and culturally
sensitive boundaries and demonstrate that there is no possibility of resulting
psychological harm to the client. This is especially true for a client who tends to be
suspicious and is likely to misinterpret interactions. This principle is not explicitly
addressed in the AAMFT Code of Ethics but is commonly understood in the community
standard of practice among mental health professionals. The community standard of
ethical practice is indirectly recognized by the AAMFT Code of Ethics Preamble which
states “The absence of an explicit reference to a specific behavior or situation in the Code
does not mean that the behavior is ethical or unethical.” \n
A is incorrect because using massage in this case might result in psychological harm to
the client. B is incorrect because, although a person would need a license to hold himself
out to the public as a masseuse practicing massage, a certificate is not needed in order to
use massage techniques incidental to some other service. B is also incorrect because it is
not based in the fundamental ethical problem presented by this question. D is incorrect
because the client is not necessarily attempting to seduce you as a way of distracting
attention from the more threatening issue of anxiety. The question does not provide
enough information to make this assumption.

90*. The correct answer is A. All four techniques are appropriate means of gathering
assessment information with a substance abusing client. Toxicity screens and gathering
collateral reports will require you to obtain the client’s permission, but there is no reason

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

