Page 406 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

her own assumptions and motivations. You need to hear a literal translation of what the
client said, then explore its meaning with the client through the translator. C is incorrect
because, although it is a better approach than B, it would make the progress of sessions
even more cumbersome, it would shift a focus to the relationship between the client and
the translator rather than to the therapeutic relationship, and even after the translator
establishes the client’s confirmation of the paraphrasing, you will still need to explore the
deeper meaning for the client. D is incorrect because it would feel very unnatural for the
translator to refrain from speaking directly to the client, and would accomplish no
constructive purpose.

75*. The correct answer is D. Androgynous sex role self-image means that the person
can accept both his masculine and feminine qualities, rather than feel a need to deny and
repress aspects of self. In contrast, a stereotypic and rigid sex role self-image indicates a
high recidivism risk. A is incorrect because assaultive and exploitive behavior which has
a compulsive, driven quality has a higher risk of recidivism than behavior which was
situational or opportunistic. B is incorrect because blind compliance with authorities
suggests weak ego functions as compared with a stance which is cooperative but cautious.
C is incorrect because self-esteem characterized by a sense of shame indicates weakness,
as compared with high self-esteem. Shame is a relatively primitive emotion in which the
individual feels generally inadequate, and is preoccupied with others’ perceptions of the
inadequacies. People whose self-esteem is characterized by a sense of shame tend to feel
overwhelmed by not knowing where to begin in resolving their presumed global
inadequacies.

76*. The correct answer is A. You have an ethical responsibility to work to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of your services, and to be a diligent steward of your
agency’s resources, which includes your own salaried time. You also have an ethical
obligation to obtain your client’s informed consent to treatment. This includes an
obligation to inform your client of reasonable alternatives available for achieving the
client’s goals. B and C are incorrect because they do not meet any of these ethical
obligations. D is incorrect because it is deceptive. It can give the client the impression
that he is receiving the requested Gestalt Therapy when he is really receiving a
fundamentally different approach. This approach might be acceptable if you first explain
your approach to the client, and determine that the use of Gestalt exercises will enhance
rather than detract from the effectiveness of the psychoeducational and Cognitive
techniques.

77 *. The correct answer is B. This client is in the pre-contemplative phase of change.
At this stage the community standard of practice is to present the client with general
information about substance use and its consequences, rather than confronting the client
with his or her own dysfunctional behavior. A is incorrect because pointing out
discrepancies between a client’s beliefs and actual experiences constitutes confrontation,
which should be held in abeyance until the client has identified himself or herself as
having a problem and is ready to consider making changes. C is incorrect because you

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

