MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 391

 

However, in general, the consent of only one parent is needed.

22*. The correct answer is C. Approximately 70% or more of individuals with autism
also have some degree of mental retardation. A and B are incorrect because these two
disorders would have already had to be ruled out in order to arrive at the confirmed
diagnosis of autism. D is incorrect because when a person with autism experiences
stereotypic movement, it is considered to be a feature of the autism and does not warrant
a separate diagnosis.

23*. The correct answer is A. Using this approach, the prospective client might be more
open to speaking with you if you come to be seen as an extension of the physician. With
that entire you might have an opportunity to briefly describe your services so that the
prospective client can make an informed choice about accepting or rejecting your
services. B is incorrect because A is a better answer. The A approach introduces you to
the prospective client as an auxiliary ally, whereas the B approach introduces you to her
in a way that could arouse some jealousy or competition. C is incorrect because the
prospective client has not yet had an opportunity to make an informed choice. The
fundamental principle behind answer C is a sound one, and if the client does persist in
rejecting your services you should accept her right to do so and not pursue the issue. D is
incorrect because you should be able to deal with severe denial in a case like this just as
well as a psychiatrist.

24*. The correct answer is C. All four of these issues are relevant to psychosocial
assessment of a person at any age. However, answer C - an individual's response to social
demands to begin making adult role choices - is most directly relevant to adolescent
identity formation. A is incorrect because a sense of common personhood is most
directly relevant in old age at the developmental stage of integrity. A well developed
recognition of this issue would be premature to expect in adolescence. B is incorrect
because deriving a sense of self-esteem by caring for others is most directly relevant in
mid-life at the developmental stage of generativity. D is incorrect because a sense of time
perspective is established during infancy at the stage of basic trust.

25* The correct answer is C. This option describes the most specific, observable change
this client might make as a step toward accomplishing her ultimate goal. It is also
consistent with the well established principle that exposure to the feared stimulus (under
the right conditions) is an effective step toward reducing phobic anxiety. A is incorrect
for a couple of reasons. First, it describes your intervention, that is, to help the client
obtain medications. The objective of that intervention is to reduce anxiety. Interventions
are not objectives. Objectives are the intended result of interventions. Second, there is
no indication that a physician has found anti-anxiety medications to be indicated. If
anything, you should help the client obtain a medication evaluation. Then, let the doctor
decide if the client should obtain medications. B is incorrect because "improve ego
functioning" is too broadly stated to serve as an objective. It lacks focus and would not
provide much sense of direction to a treatment plan. D is incorrect because there is no

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

