Page 412 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

94*. The correct answer is D. Delusions are firmly held false beliefs, in other words, the
content of thought is inaccurate. A is incorrect because neologisms, or idiosyncratic
invention of words, is a disturbance of "word usage," not thought content. B is incorrect
because thought blocking is a disturbance of "stream of thought," that is, the flow of
thought. C is incorrect because tangential speech is a disturbance of "continuity of
thought" which refers to the associations among ideas.

95*. The correct answer is D. "Continuity of thought" refers to the associations among
ideas. In circumstantial thinking the person becomes diverted from the main point and
onto marginally related ideas. The continuity of thoughts about the main point is
therefore impaired. A is incorrect because poverty of content of speech is a disturbance
of "content of thought." The individual with this way of thinking will express a sufficient
number of words to make a point, and sentences may even make sense, but the total
communication remains meaningless. This often becomes apparent when the listener
tries to summarize or paraphrase what the speaker has just said. B is incorrect because
overabundant thought is a disturbance of "stream of thought" which relates to the quantity
of thoughts. C is incorrect because magical thinking is a disturbance of "content of
thought" in which thoughts are illogical, unreasonable or unrealistic.

96*. The correct answer is C. Abreaction is a psychoanalytic technique involving a
cathartic reliving of an experience in a controlled, supportive and therapeutic
environment. A is incorrect because flooding is a behavioral technique in which the
client is continually exposed to the feared stimulus, perhaps anywhere from 30 minutes to
8 hours at a time. B is incorrect because graduated exposure is a behavioral technique in
which the client is gradually exposed to a feared stimulus for longer and longer durations
over a period of time. D is incorrect because systematic desensitization is a behavioral
technique in which the client is taught relaxation skills, usually involving muscle
relaxation, which are then used in the context of exposures to a graduated hierarchy of
phobic stimuli.

97*. The correct answer is D. Achievable, short term goals provide structure and
support. For example, "abstinence from all substances of abuse for 1 week." Brief,
frequent counseling sessions should be used to reinforce the short-term goal of immediate
abstinence. A is incorrect because this approach provides little support. Instead of
working toward abstinence or anticipating triggers to reuse, this approach leaves the
client vulnerable to cravings as they arise. B is incorrect because the cognitive process of
reviewing the negative and delayed consequences of one's substance use may be useful
during an early engagement process, or later during the maintenance phase of change, but
the focus during early abstinence should be on the abstaining behaviors. C is incorrect
because long term goals are too abstract and general to provide a structured focus for
changing immediate behaviors. The goal of staying abstinent for 1 week is much more
motivating than the goal of staying abstinent for the rest of one's life. That's why a key
slogan of the 12 step programs is "one day at a time."

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

