MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 405

 

but does not usually cause clouded consciousness and does not fluctuate during the course
of the day because it doesn’t usually last that long.

70*. The correct answer is A. The question presents three signs of bulimia. People with
bulimia tend to be depressed. Recurrent vomiting causes loss of dental enamel, which
leads to chipping and a ragged appearance. When individuals with bulimia induce
vomiting by manually stimulating the gag reflex, this often causes callouses or scars on
the hand from repeated trauma from the teeth. B is incorrect because it is unlikely that a
victim of domestic violence would be injured only in these ways. Also, trauma to the
teeth as a result of domestic violence would be more likely to cause loss of teeth, not the
chipping and ragged appearance described in the question. C and D are incorrect because
marijuana use or hypothyroid can cause depression, but there is no particular reason to
associate these conditions with the information presented about the teeth and scarring of
the hand.

71*. The correct answer is C. The Child Abuse Reporting Law does not require you to
identify your supervisor. The law applies to individual health practitioners, child care
custodians and child protective workers and doesn’t otherwise relate to their supervisors
or administrators. A, B and D are incorrect because all of these types of information are
required to be reported by Penal Code Sec. 11167 (a).

72*. The correct answer is D. Family Code Sec. 6929 (c) requires you to include a
minor’s parents in treatment of alcohol or drug abuse if appropriate. If you believe it
would be inappropriate to do so, you must record your reason in the treatment record. A
is incorrect because the law does not prohibit you from contacting the parents. B is
incorrect because the law allows you to treat the minor for a drug or alcohol related
problem without the parents’ consent. C is incorrect because, even though the law allows
you to treat the minor, it does not require you to do so.

73*. The correct answer is B. Your client probably knows more about his culture of
origin than you do, especially as he has experienced it. You should accept and explore
his experience of his culture just as you should accept and explore his experience of other
significant aspects of his situation. A is incorrect because you don’t know if the client’s
perception of his culture of origin is the result of the client’s acculturation into another
culture. It may be the result of his actual experience of his culture of origin. C is
incorrect because it is an attempt to impose your view of the client’s culture (a positive
view) over his own View based on his own experience (a negative view). D is incorrect
because it assumes that your client’s perceptions of his culture of origin is based on
personal distortions rather than on actual experience. However, the question provides no
information that would lead to such an assumption.

74*. The correct answer is A. After hearing the literal translations, you can explore the
client’s deeper meaning in a way that makes sense from your therapeutic perspective. B
is incorrect because a translator using this approach is likely to interject much of his or

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

