Page 398 MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

social conversations. B is incorrect because the goal is to improve the client’s
participation in satisfying and supportive social networks, not to improve participation in
a particular relationship. D is incorrect because “emotionally satisfying and productive
social relationships” is more of a goal statement than an objective statement because it is
general and abstract.

48*. The correct answer is A. Research has found that a therapist can reduce the
likelihood of developing PTSD following a trauma by using a crisis intervention
approach that focuses on disclosing the traumatic events, exploring troubling reactions,
identifying coping strategies, developing a plan of action, and providing referrals for
supportive services such as medical care and self-help groups. B is incorrect because
people who have been traumatized usually have a need to tell and retell the story of the
trauma. This can become a preoccupation or obsession if it is not accompanied by a
discussion of the client’s strengths, coping strategies, and a plan of action, but these
positive issues should not be used to suppress or distract attention from the trauma. C is
incorrect because, even though attention to past traumas could be helpful in some cases, it
shouldn’t be the primary focus. The variety of issues addressed in A point toward
resolution and therefore make it a better answer. D is incorrect because research has
shown that a crisis intervention approach following a trauma is likely to reduce the
likelihood of developing PTSD. Note that even without a crisis intervention approach,
most people exposed to a violent trauma do not develop PTSD.

49*. The correct answer is C. The symptoms of personality disorders are inflexible and
ego syntonic. If your client saw his suspiciousness and aggressiveness as being
excessive, that would indicate neither inflexibility nor an ego syntonic quality. Such a
person might have paranoid personality traits, but not the diagnosable syndrome of a
personality disorder. A is incorrect because even though exposure to prejudice and
discrimination might lead to a realistic sense of caution not common among people who
have been free of prejudice and discrimination, but it is not likely, in and of itself, to lead
to repeated agitation and aggressiveness in situations such as classrooms. People who are
persistently, pervasively, inflexibly and dysfunctionally paranoid have a paranoid
personality disorder regardless of the life experiences that lead to its development, and
regardless of their ethnicity. B is incorrect because paranoid personality disorder can co-
occur with prodromal paranoid schizophrenia if the paranoid symptoms have been
pervasive and persistent throughout childhood. D is incorrect because being this way
since early childhood confirms rather than rules out a diagnosis of personality disorder.

50*. The correct answer is A. The most efficacious psychosocial treatments for conduct
disorder, as identified in research, involve Parent Training. In such programs parents
learn to appropriately establish rules and limits, implement consequences, and reward
positive behaviors. Many will need help learning effective communication with the child
and problem solving and negotiation strategies. These skills are then applied in a
graduated way, first dealing with simple problems and then moving on to more difficult
problems. B is incorrect because relaxation training is used in the treatment of anxiety

 
