MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 417

 

113*. The correct answer is D. A client who takes a hostile and aversive stance in
relation to the therapist is still entitled to privileged communication. An exception might
arise if the hostile and aversive client filed suit against the therapist, but that condition is
not stated in the question. A, B and C are incorrect because each of these issues is listed
in the law regarding psychotherapist-patient privilege as legitimate exceptions to the
privilege.

114*. The correct answer is B. Consent can be given by a minor 12 years or older, but
only to outpatient psychotherapy, not psychiatric inpatient services. It excludes inpatient
treatment. A is incorrect because the minor must be at least 12 years of age to give minor
consent. C is incorrect because parents have no obligation to pay for services provided on
a minor consent basis. D is incorrect because minors may not consent to medications or
other forms of physical treatment for mental disorders.

115*. The correct answer is D. Marriage and family therapists have an ethical
responsibility to respect the rights of clients and to help clients understand the
consequences of their decisions. This client has a right to choose if and where he will
seek social support. D helps the client understand his options and make his own choice.
A is incorrect because this client does not necessarily identify with the Latino community,
or he might prefer to find support in the gay community, or in a multicultural community.
B is incorrect because the question asks about how to help the client obtain social
support. There are much more direct, effective, and efficient approaches to
accomplishing this objective. C is incorrect because there is no indication that the client
wants to involve family members in the course of his therapy. This may be one of the
options to consider when identifying a variety of potential social supports and helping the
client choose, but you shouldn’t jump to the conclusion that this would be the best option
for this client. The client needs to decide that.

116*. The correct answer is B. “Role conception” refers to an individual’s beliefs about
the role expectations that other people have of him or her. A is incorrect because the
actual behavior of a person in a given position is referred to as role performance. C is
incorrect because “role expectation” refers to how others actually expect a person to
perform in a role. D is incorrect because a collectively recognized category of persons
who are similar in some respect is referred to as a position. Examples of positions are
“surgeons,” “supervisors,” or “psychotherapists.” How does society expect a
psychotherapist to behave? The answer to that question addresses the role expectations
for psychotherapists.

117*. The correct answer is C. Let the child know that expression of negative feelings is
acceptable, then teach her how to express feelings such as anger and hostility in a safe
manner. Examples include kicking a soccer ball, drawing a picture which expresses her
feelings, or staging a puppet show. A is incorrect because the child needs to identify and
express her feelings in order to acknowledge and work through the traumatic experience.
This can be a constructive process if feelings are expressed in the context of a safe,

 
