Page 416   MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

108*. The correct answer is B. In the view of this theory a person with a narcissistic
personality disorder would be expected to experience hypochondriasis, depression, and
hypersensitivity to ridicule and rejection. Note that in Self Psychology the concept of
narcissistic personality disorder is not the same as it is in the DSM diagnostic manual. A
is incorrect because Self Psychology considers a narcissistic disorder to be a primary
disturbance of self in which a firmly established self has not developed. C is incorrect
because empathy involves an interest in being close to and understanding another person.
The person with a narcissistic disorder is much less interested in others than in himself or
herself. D is incorrect because an overstimulated self results from unempathic, over
intrusive relationships in childhood which lead to avoiding attention, lack of enthusiasm,
and conflicts about pursuing goals. This is similar to the person with an excessive sense
of guilt in the Eriksonian Ego Psychology framework.

109*. The correct answer is A. Tox screens can be a useful tool in helping a person in
early recovery to avoid relapse. This is particularly effective with marijuana use because
tox screens are sensitive to traces of marijuana as long as 30 days after it has been used,
unlike some other substances in which the tox screen might only detect the substance for
a day or two after use. B is incorrect because relationships with former “using buddies”
are likely to be powerful triggers which can lead to relapse. C is incorrect because a
person’s addiction does not occur in a vacuum separate from the rest of his or her life.
Other psychosocial problems, if left unresolved, could trigger relapse. Also, the client
needs to learn healthy alternative means of dealing with everyday problems that were
previously dealt with through substance abuse. D is incorrect because family members
need to learn detachment rather than take responsibility for maintaining their loved one’s
recovery.

110*. The correct answer is A. The MFT license law states that failure to disclose the
fee to a client prior to the commencement of treatment constitutes unprofessional conduct
and can be grounds for suspension or revocation of licensure. B, C and D are not legal
requirements.

111*. The correct answer is C. A is incorrect because it is the verbal report, not the
written elder abuse report, that must be made immediately. B is incorrect because the
elder abuse reporting law specifies "working days," not "calendar days." D is incorrect
because it is a child abuse written report that must be filed within 36 hours, not an elder
abuse report.

112*. The correct answer is C. Amphetamines (or other stimulants) and either manic or
hypomanic episodes can cause the symptoms of autonomic hyperactivity described here,
as well as a reduced need for sleep. A is incorrect because marijuana does not usually
cause the symptoms of autonomic hyperactivity, and doesn't typically reduce the need for
sleep. B is also incorrect because marijuana does not cause the symptoms described here.
D is incorrect because hypersomnia refers to excessive sleep, not a reduction in hours
slept.

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

