Page 424 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

resources for problem solving. D is incorrect because catharsis involves ventilation or
expression of one’s thoughts and feelings about a problem. This can help a person
develop a better understanding of the nature of the problem as a basis for planning an
approach to problem solving.

142*. The correct answer is A. Trust is built through empathy, acceptance, and
especially a show of genuineness in the therapist-client relationship. Focusing on a
specific, immediate problem per se is not particularly relevant to relationship building. B,
C and D are all reasons repeatedly given in the practice literature for taking a short term
problem focus in case management and other forms of clinical services as well.

143*. The correct answer is D. Being only human, all therapists are disturbed or upset
from time to time by some of the things that are said by clients, especially those who are
resistant, oppositional, angry or combative. By letting the disturbance show, without
losing one’s sense of professional role and boundaries, the therapist conveys his or her
willingness to be real, or genuine, in the therapist-client relationship. A, B and C might
all be good things to do with a client, but they are not as directly related to assessing a
client’s perception of your genuineness. A is incorrect because a therapist can
deceptively communicate emotion, just as one can deceptively communicate thought. B
is incorrect because acceptance can also be deceptive. If a therapist actually views a
client in a judgmental way, a verbal expression of acceptance could well be at odds with a
non-verbal expression of judgment. This would not convey genuineness. C is incorrect
because expressions of caring concern also may or may not be genuine. D is the only
answer here in which the therapist is described as expressing something that he or she is
truly feeling or thinking.

144*. The correct answer is B. The anxiety of panic attacks is increased by focusing
attention on it. Distraction helps to extinguish the symptoms. A is incorrect because
trying to suppress the anxiety focuses attention on it. Panic attacks are intensified when
individuals try to intentionally reduce the symptoms. Instead, the person needs to allow
the symptoms to remit spontaneously, as they eventually will. C is also incorrect because
this approach focuses attention on the attack which tends to intensify the anxiety. D is
incorrect because this approach misses an opportunity to distract the client's attention
from the anxiety. Even though you may be sitting quietly, it is unlikely that your client
will be doing so during a panic attack. ‘

145*. The correct answer is D. A focus on the symptoms will likely reinforce the client's
own attention to symptoms. This can exacerbate her experience of them. Instead, convey
sincere interest in the client, reinforcing her self-worth as a person, and encouraging her
to take responsibility for meeting her own needs. A is incorrect because it would be
much more effective to help the client move forward by developing stress management
skills, and by engaging in health promotion activities such as exercise and social support.
Somatoform symptoms, like most symptoms, are multidetermined and it may be
extremely difficult if not impossible to discover the true causes of the problem. B is

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

