MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 429

 

small, selected portion of the available information. It is similar to sampling error in
research.

160*. The correct answer is D. Intoxication is the most likely cause of exceptionally
impulsive and problematic behavior in a person who is generally not prone to such
behavior. A is incorrect because impulse control disorder NOS, like all diagnosable
impulse control disorders, involves repeated symptomatic behaviors. B is incorrect
because antisocial personality traits involve a lifelong, pervasive pattern of antisocial acts.
C is incorrect because kleptomania involves a recurrent pattern of shoplifting.

161*. The correct answer is C. Parasomnias are sleep disturbances such as sleepwalking
that involve abnormal events during sleep. A is incorrect because difficulty falling asleep
and staying asleep constitute insomnia. B is incorrect because sleeping too much is
referred to as hypersomnia. D is incorrect because somatoform disorders, not sleep
disorders, involve experiencing somatic complaints for which there is no medical
explanation.

162*. The correct answer is B. You have an ethical obligation to comply with your
employer’s policies and procedures, as long as they are not contrary to laws or ethical
standards. There is no law or ethical standard that would prohibit you from informing
your supervisor after making a child abuse report. A is incorrect because the child abuse
reporting law applies to you as an individual. Your reporting obligation is not subject to
the approval or denial of a supervisor. C is incorrect because the fact that the child abuse
reporting law applies to you as an individual is not grounds for keeping information about
your reports secret from your supervisor. D is incorrect because you have an ethical
obligation to comply with your employer’s policies and procedures. The community
standard of practice does not require marriage and family therapists to judge compliance
with every policy or procedure on the grounds of whether or not it is in the best interest of
the client, as long as compliance would not cause significant harm to the client. If
compliance would cause significant harm to the client it would probably be contrary to
some ethical standard or law, and this would be grounds for refusing to comply With an
employer’s policy or procedure.

163*. The correct answer is C. “General neglect” is distinguished from “severe neglect.”
General neglect means negligent failure to provide adequate food, clothing, shelter,
medical care or supervision. A is incorrect because the law states that a person shall not
be found guilty of general neglect for choosing to treat a medical condition by spiritual
means. B is incorrect because the law states that “an informed and appropriate medical
decision made by a parent or guardian after consultation with a physician or physicians
who have examined the minor does not constitute neglect.” D is incorrect because failure
to protect the child from severe malnutrition constitutes “severe neglect” which is
distinguished from “general neglect.”

164*. The correct answer is B. You are not required to report because you have no

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

