MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 435

 

because this is a person focused rather than a family focused intervention strategy.

181*. The correct answer is C. Family structure refers to established patterns of

interaction, or relationship patterns. The focus in Structural Family Therapy is on the
balance and flexibility of the family’s structure, and a strong parental coalition. A and B
are incorrect because these are the focus of Open Communication approaches to Family
Therapy such as Conjoint Family Therapy. Self-esteem, addressed in answer B, is
particularly addressed in Conjoint Family Therapy. Even though communication patterns
are addressed in all family therapy, the focus in Structural Family Therapy is on the other
issues noted above. D is incorrect because this kind of differentiation is the focus of
Bowenian Intergenerational Family Therapy, not Structural Family Therapy.

182*. The correct answer is A. Hostility toward the therapist is especially likely to
emerge during the “exploration and testing” phase of group development. This is when
the therapist’s own maturity, sense of integrity, and security are put to the test. The
therapist at this stage needs to be just as accepting and understanding as parents of a
toddler at the stage of autonomy vs. shame and doubt. B is incorrect because group
members need to explore all aspects of their psychic and interpersonal experience,
including hostility when it is there. The therapist should foster norms of honesty and
spontaneity, not suppression. C is incorrect because a psychoanalytic approach to group
therapy focuses on here and now group process as a means for coming to understand the
intrapsychic experiences of members. D is incorrect because socialization outside of the
group interferes with the development of group cohesiveness. It tends to foster the
development of divisive subgroups.

183*. The correct answer is C. Anorexia nervosa involves a refusal to maintain normal
body weight, intense fear of gaining weight, and disturbed perception of body shape or
size. A is incorrect because a person with anorexia nervosa avoids both nutritious and
non-nutritious foods. B is incorrect because eating binges would be relevant to
determining whether or not a client had bulimia. Binges are also relevant to determining
the specific type of anorexia, but they do not determine whether or not a person has
anorexia. D is incorrect because excessive exercise is often present among people with
anorexia, but it does not determine whether or not a person has anorexia. Many people
with anorexia do not exercise excessively, and many people who exercise excessively do
not have anorexia.

184*. The correct answer is D. In the Thematic Apperception Test (TAT) the client tells
stories about a series of cards portraying family and social situations. The test reveals
personality traits and themes. A, B and C are incorrect because the TAT does not address
these issues. Examples of tests for these issues are the Folstein Mini-Mental Status Exam
(cognitive functioning), Achenbach Checklist (child and adolescent social competence) or
the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (intelligence).

185*. The correct answer is C. “Depersonalization” refers to a feeling of being detached

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

