MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 431

 

excessive reactivity and dependency between members. Members of these families
characteristically lack a sense of self as separate from their family as a whole. B is
incorrect because the opposite end of the spectrum is termed “disengaged.” Disengaged
families typically have very rigid boundaries and members tend to act independently of
one another. Members of these families lack a sense of togetherness and social
connection. Minuchin proposed that the ideal family falls in the middle of this spectrum.
C is incorrect because resonant refers to family members being responsive to one
another’s communications and behaviors. Healthy relationships, as well as enmeshed
relationships, could be properly described as resonant. D is incorrect because the
expectations within an enmeshed family are very stressful for family members, not
supportive.

168*. The correct answer is C. Engage a translator after careful evaluation of his or her
qualifications. Although you are respecting a family’s right to privacy by using a child as
the translator for the family, the harm this method may cause far outweighs its benefits.
Like most ethnic cultures, Asian cultures tend to be hierarchical. Generational
boundaries tend to be very clear and respect for elders is highly valued. By using a child
as a translator you are creating a situation that allows the child a position of authority or
control over his/her elders. Therefore, A is incorrect. Incidentally, this situation may
parallel one of the problematic issues they are bringing to discuss in the therapy. B is
incorrect because an older bilingual family member’s participation in the sessions may
raise privacy issues and, consequently, arouse shame for your clients in front of their
extended family. D is incorrect because your client needs treatment for a significant
condition, a major depressive disorder, which involves a variety of clinical risks.
Participation in supportive community activities may be beneficial, but not instead of
treatment by a mental health professional. The best option is to engage a translator;
however, a careful evaluation of the translator is necessary to ensure accurate
communication between you and your clients.

169*. The correct answer is A. The Tarasoff decision and the subsequent community
standard of practice require that the warning be made to both the potential victim and to
the police. In the Tarasoff case the therapist reported to the police but not to the intended
victim and was found guilty as a result. B and C are incorrect because the warning must
be made to both the potential victim and the police. D is incorrect because it may be
good practice to inform one’s supervisor when making a Tarasoff warning, but it is not
required by law and may or may not be required by agency policy.

170*. The correct answer is B. “Forced choice” situations are good occasions for
supportive confrontation with substance abusing clients who are not yet committed to
taking action on overcoming their problem. These are situations in which the client can
recognize that if he or she doesn’t get help, something important will be lost, such as a
relationship, a job, or housing. These situations arise naturally in the lives of substance
abusers. Often the therapist’s role will be to help the individual frame the situation as a
“forced choice” between continuing to suffer the undesirable consequences, or work on

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

