Page 438 * MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

have a diagnosis this information probably would not be relevant to establishing that
abuse has occurred. A, C and D are incorrect because all of this information is required
by Welfare and Institutions Code Section 15630 to be included in elder abuse reports.

194*. The correct answer is B. The law states that it is a form of physical abuse to use
chemical constraints or psychotropic medication for a period beyond that for which the
medication was ordered pursuant to the instructions of a physician and surgeon. A is
incorrect because depriving access to technology in general is not necessarily considered
to be a form of abuse. Note, however, that it is illegal to prevent an elder from receiving
his or her phone calls. C is incorrect because the law states that no person shall be
deemed neglected or abused for the sole reason that he or she voluntarily relies on
treatment by spiritual means through prayer alone in lieu of medical treatment. D is
incorrect because the caretaker is not necessarily the one responsible for paying your
agency’s fee.

195*. The correct answer is B. Welfare and Institutions Code Sec. 15610.06 states that
“abduction” means the removal from the state and the restraint from returning to this state
of any elder or dependent adult who does not have the capacity to consent to the removal
from this state or of any conservatee without the consent of the conservator or the court.
A is incorrect because being held in a location against one’s will is addressed in the elder
adult abuse reporting act as false imprisonment or other form of isolation. C is incorrect
because preventing an elder from receiving mail or phone calls constitutes isolation, not
abduction. D is incorrect because threats may be a form of mental suffering, not
abduction, and only if they cause fear, agitation, confusion, severe depression or other
forms of serious emotional distress. It is not a matter of reportable mental suffering if the
“threat” to place an elder in a nursing home is being communicated because a caretaker
believes that such placement is what the elder needs for proper care.

196*. The correct answer is A. Even though the client is seeing you as part of a
probation plan, the client may have several alternatives. The client may have the option
of choosing jail time instead of treatment, or the client may have the option of choosing
another therapist or another type of therapist. Even if the client chooses to work with
you, the client may have options with regard to treatment methods to be used. B, C and D
are incorrect because there is neither an ethical nor legal obligation to provide this
information to a client who is in treatment under terms of a probation plan.

197*. The correct answer is B. The oral aggressive personality is a biting, sarcastic,
scornful personality pattern resulting from a fixation at the later phase of the oral stage
when teeth come in and biting becomes a major source of pleasure. A is incorrect
because an oral dependent personality is a passive, overly dependent, unenterprising
personality pattern resulting from a fixation at the earlier phase of the oral stage if a child
has repeated anxiety over whether food will be given or withheld. C is incorrect because
“oral pre-operational” personality is not a behavioral science concept. It is a mix of
Freud’s “oral stage” concept of psychosexual development with Piaget’s “pre-

