Page 428 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

assimilation or accommodation, therefore the “openness” of the system doesn’t determine
Whether it tends toward assimilation or accommodation. D is incorrect because almost all
families are subsystems of an extended family system.

156*. The correct answer is A. A client’s fantasies are not relevant for case recording in
most clinical practice, especially in case management practice. A client’s fantasies are
very private information which should not be recorded unless they are directly related to
the goals, objectives and interventions in a particular case. Risk management attorneys
recommend that this kind of information be excluded from case documentation because it
violates the client’s privacy, and because it tends to prejudice the proceedings if legal
action is brought against the therapist for any reason and clinical records are entered in
evidence. B, C and D are all incorrect because they are all commonly addressed in texts
on providing clinical services in general, including case management services.

157 *. The correct answer is B. Too much heterogeneity means too many differences
between group members, usually with regard to personality traits, psychological
sophistication, culture, motivation for treatment, or diagnosis. Too many differences can
lead to the kind of conflict described in the question. A is incorrect because too much
homogeneity, or sameness among members, tends to lead to boredom and lack of
stimulation but not this kind of conflict which is very stimulating. C is incorrect because
even a stabilized power hierarchy might exercise its power for purposes of maintaining
conflict. D is incorrect because a cohesive group with sufficient homogeneity could
assimilate pressures coming from outside the group. A high level of conflict is much
more directly related to too much heterogeneity.

158*. The correct answer is D. Role expectations and norms are the means by which a
group maintains its integration, that is, shapes behavior in the group and maintains its
patterns of communication. A is incorrect because a group can be integrated to maintain
dysfunctional norms. B is incorrect because a group can be integrated with the therapist
or anyone else as the center of its communication patterns. It would be difficult,
however, for a group to maintain integration without anyone as a leader. C is incorrect
because all groups, all social systems, are oriented to achieve some goal. If a group has
an explicit goal, its integration would be helpful in focusing energies on achieving that
goal. However, even though integration serves goal orientation, it is not the same thing.

159*. The correct answer is A. Magnification involves overvaluing the significance of
something. In the case of this question the significance of the therapist’s suggestions is
being overvalued. B is incorrect because personalization involves erroneously assuming
responsibility for external problems where little or no responsibility exists. C is incorrect
because catastrophic thinking involves the prediction of worst case scenarios while
ignoring more likely outcomes. Catastrophic thinking would be a correct answer if the
question stated that your client believes he will commit suicide or be hospitalized for
failing to understand or properly carry out your suggestions. D is incorrect because
selective abstraction involves using “mental filters” when drawing a conclusion from a

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

