Page 418 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

supportive relationship and in a structured way. B is incorrect because identification of
automatic thoughts is a step toward reframing inappropriate and dysfunctional links
between thoughts and feelings. If your client has angry and hostile feelings after being
physically abused, these feelings need to be identified, expressed, accepted and validated
rather than being reframed. D is incorrect because this approach will lead the child to
intellectualize in a way that could foster isolation of affect and a sense of dissociation. It
would be better to help her express feelings related to her own trauma and other related
fearful situations so that she can work through the feelings rather than compartmentalize
them.

118*. The correct answer is B. Note the word “inappropriate” in the question.
Adolescents experience strong sexual drives and often attempt to deal with this through
very moralistic and judgmental attitudes, especially in relation to the sexuality of the
adults in their lives. They are sometimes criticized for being amoral because their sexual
mores may be more liberal than that of some adults, or because some adolescents lose
control of their impulses, but they are typically very concerned about the morality of their
own and others’ sexual behavior. A is incorrect because adolescents typically experience
an increase in physical tension and energy. This pattern is not always evident in the
morning hours (hypersomnia is more common than hyposomnia among youth) or among
adolescents who are clinically depressed. C is incorrect because adolescents tend to be
very focused on themselves as they struggle to resolve the question "who am I?"
Narcissism, a possible defense against loneliness, is evident in the adolescent's sense of
worry and criticism toward oneself as they strive to look and be perfect. D is incorrect
because adolescents tend to make statements such as "I will always feel this way about
that" or "I wish I could be perfect like Pat." Extreme positions can often take the form of
idealism and cynical disillusionment.

119*. The correct answer is B. A and C are incorrect because a client’s privileged
communication is limited once he brings action to establish his competence, or someone
else brings action to establish his competence. In this situation he is still entitled to
privileged communication for information that is not relevant to the competence
proceedings. A, C and D are all incorrect because they are all among the exceptions to
the privilege as noted in Evidence Code Sections 1016-1027.

120*. The correct answer is D. Triadic arrangements involve recurrent patterns of
interaction among any three people in a family or other social system. A and B are
incorrect because enmeshment and disengagement are problems of resonance, related to
how sensitive family members are in reacting to one another’s behavior. Relationships in
a triadic arrangement might be highly responsive or at a low level of responsiveness, or
somewhere in between. C is incorrect because norms refer to the general rules of
behavior in a family, that is, rules that apply to everyone. For example, how is it okay to
express anger in this family? Or how is it okay to make physical contact with others in
this family?

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

