Page 392   MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

reason to think that this particular client has social anxiety because of low self-esteem or
that self-esteem needs to be improved in order to accomplish this client's goal of reducing
social anxiety, thereby improving job performance.

26*. The correct answer is B. This stage of change is referred to as “contemplation.”
The client is beginning to wonder why he or she engages in a harmful habit and what its
payoff might be. The client is not yet planning to take action. Moving too fast will
threaten the therapeutic relationship. This is a phase of tentative exploration of the issues
in a general way. A is incorrect because the client is not yet committed to working on the
substance abuse issue, and may choose not to. Even when the client becomes more
committed to working on this issue, attention should still be given to the client’s variety
of psychosocial issues, rather than focusing primarily on his substance use. Unresolved
psychosocial problems could trigger regression and relapse even after an active recovery
process has begun. C is incorrect because the client is not yet planning to make changes.
He is only considering the possibility in a general way. Goals and objectives should be
clarified once the client begins planning to take action. D is incorrect because removing
temptations and arranging positive substitutes involves major changes in social
affiliations, habit patterns, and lifestyle. This client is probably not ready to take that on.

27*. The correct answer is A. B is incorrect because your client’s intention is irrelevant.
The issue is whether or not your client presents a serious danger of violence to another
person, whether your client intends to harm another person or not. For example, a client
who plans to commit an arson fire might hope that nobody is in the building. However,
the client presents a serious danger of violence to those who are in the building in spite of
his wishes. C is incorrect because the Tarasoff decision refers to serious danger of
violence and is not limited to murder, even though it was a murder case in which this
precedence was established. D is incorrect because your client’s planfulness is irrelevant.
A serious danger of impulsive violence is just as relevant to this reporting duty as is a
serious danger of planned violence. Also, a client may have a plan to harm someone but
you may be aware of many other factors which indicate that the client does not present a
serious danger of carrying out the plan.

28*. The correct answer is C. Vascular dementia develops as a result of multiple small
strokes. Some cognitive functioning is lost with each stroke, then mental status stabilizes
until the next small stroke. A is incorrect because amnestic disorder involves memory
loss with no other cognitive disturbance. This client is experiencing memory loss plus
loss of calculation ability and ability to communicate in writing. B is incorrect because
delirium involves disorientation and a clouding of consciousness, often with incoherence.
There is no evidence of these symptoms in the question. D is incorrect because dementia
of the Alzheimer’s type involves a more or less steady progressive deterioration in
cognitive functioning, not the stepwise deterioration followed by stabilization that is
described in this question.

29* The correct answer is D. You should help Mrs. J understand the nature of reactive

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

