MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 385
1.* The correct answer is B. A child’s environment plays a key role in the treatment of
oppositional defiant disorder. Teachers, counselors, clergy, probation officers and others
in authority relationships with the child may need help learning to reinforce the
techniques used by the therapist to support the child’s problem solving, anger
management, social skills, and communication skills by modeling and rewarding
appropriate behavior in their respective community environments. A is incorrect because
confrontation regarding the parents’ role in the problem is more relevant to the purpose
and processes of the therapeutic relationship than to the parent-teacher relationship. C is
incorrect because no inherent role conflict is involved when a therapist and teacher
collaborate if the two parties are clear about their respective roles and the client focused
purpose of their collaboration. D is incorrect because of the importance of the teacher
and others in reinforcing the techniques used by the therapist.

2*. The correct answer is A. This approach supports the extent to which the client
himself would like to stop this antisocial behavior and empowers the client to take
initiative on his own behalf. If the client were to refuse to make the report himself, you
would need to make the report immediately. B is incorrect because it suggests that the
only reason for making the report is that it is a legal requirement, with no sense of the
purpose of the report. While your reporting obligation is mandated, it is more important to_
convey that purpose of the report, therefore, A is a better answer. C and D are incorrect
because they are a relatively heavy handed initial approach to meeting your legal
obligation in a manner which is more likely than A to alienate the client.

3*. The correct answer is C. Self-instructional statements can be specifically geared to
assist the client with each of the three applications described in the question. A is
incorrect because, although medication might help reduce his inattention and/or
hyperactivity in general, it will not help him to anticipate and prepare for challenging
situations. This is a coping skill requiring cognitive change. B is incorrect because
relaxation techniques may help in coping with arousal and in cooling down after a
challenging situation, but they will not help with anticipation of challenging situations. D
is incorrect because his tendency toward distraction is probably predominantly caused by
organic factors, not psychodynamic factors.

4*. The correct answer is D. Self-monitoring and identification of a client’s own
automatic thoughts is part of an individualized assessment process which precedes
change oriented intervention in any treatment approach, including Cognitive Behavioral

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

