MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 395

 

incorrect because long visits could be experienced as stressful and overwhelming to both
the visitor and the person receiving the visit.

37*. The correct answer is A. Psychotherapy, using a Self Psychology approach,
involves a genuine, empathic relationship in which the therapist provides reconstructive
opportunities with an adequate selfobject. The course of therapy involves an
“understanding phase” in which the therapist’s efforts are aimed at grasping, through
empathy, the affective experience of the client. Efforts are made to communicate this
experience to the client. This is followed by an “explaining phase” in which the therapist
uses’ empathic understanding to interpret the affects and behaviors that result from
empathic failures. Underlying reasons for the client’s experience may be interpreted. B
is incorrect because self-instruction skills are used in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, not
Self-Psychology based therapy. C is incorrect because self-help may be a good idea for
any client receiving any form of psychotherapy, but it is not particularly relevant to Self
Psychology based therapy. D is incorrect because the therapeutic relationship and the
therapist’s interpretive insights are an essential feature of Self Psychology based therapy.
It is not primarily designed for the client to interpret his or her own dynamics.

38*. The correct answer is A. Individuals speaking in a non-dominant language, or
secondary language, are more likely to express incoherent sounds, be less fluent, have
extended silences or hesitations, and speak slowly. Be cautious about drawing inferences
about cognitive impairments based on such observations alone. B is incorrect because
expression of affect is more likely to be emphasized when speaking in a primary
language. Individuals tend to emphasize factual or descriptive information when
speaking in a secondary language. C is incorrect because culturally based deferential
behavior is usually relevant to specific kinds of relationships or specific situations. It is
not necessarily an indicator of general social anxiety. D is incorrect because self-effacing
behavior is more likely, not less likely, when an individual speaks in a secondary '
language. Even though skill in a second language warrants a sense of pride, individuals
often feel self-critical about their language skills in a secondary language, especially if
they have been criticized or ridiculed by others for being less than perfectly fluent.

39*. The correct answer is A. Rationalization involves thinking up logical, socially
approved reasons for one’s past, present or proposed behavior. These reasons are not
always reasonable and, therefore, are often inconsistent with one another. B is incorrect
because intellectualization is a defense mechanism in which an affective charge is
compartmentalized through logic-tight arguments. The logic of rationalization isn’t
always so tight. C is incorrect because displacement involves discharging pent up
feelings, usually by hostility, on objects less dangerous than those to which the feelings
were originally directed. D is incorrect because reaction formation involves development
of attitudes and behavior patterns which are opposite of dangerous and unpleasant
impulses and desires.

40*. The correct answer is C. This principle is stated in the AAMFT Code of Ethics as

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

