MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 351

 

90*. Your new client is a rather self-conscious and quiet 19 year old college student who
has been troubled by his abuse of marijuana and alcohol. In gathering assessment
information you should use...
a. direct observation, direct questioning, collateral reports and toxicity screens
b. direct observation, direct questioning, and collateral reports but not toxicity
screens
c. direct observation, direct questioning, and toxicity screens but not collateral
reports
d. direct questioning, collateral reports and toxicity screens but not direct
observation

91*. You are providing family therapy services to a recently married couple and their
four children. Each has two children from a prior marriage. When providing services to
this family you should...
a. seek agreement among the participants regarding their obligation to preserve each
other’s confidentiality and confirm that you will assure that they comply
b. seek agreement among the participants regarding their obligation to preserve each
other’s confidentiality and explain the ways in which you will preserve their
confidentiality 
c. inform the participants of the rules they must follow in order to preserve each
other’s confidentiality and confirm that you will assure their compliance
d. let the clients know that confidentiality cannot be expected when several
individuals are involved in therapy sessions

92*. Your client, a 32 year old gay man, is amphetamine dependent. You should help
the client understand that, compared with other gay men, he is...
a. at higher risk of engaging in unprotected sex due to the sense of entitlement and
grandiosity resulting from amphetamine withdrawal
b. at higher risk of becoming HIV infected due to the way in which amphetamines
interfere with the body's immune system
c. at lower risk of becoming HIV infected due to the way in which amphetamines
stimulate the body's immune system
d. at higher risk of engaging in unprotected sex due to disinhibition and altered
perception of risk resulting from amphetamine intoxication

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ Z009

