Page 364 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

144*. Your client develops a panic attack during one of your scheduled therapy sessions.
If your objective is to reduce the anxiety at that point in time you should...
a. encourage the client to try to suppress the anxiety
b. have the client think and talk about another subject rather than stay focused on the
attack
c. ask the client to describe the attack and its meaning for the client
d. sit quietly until the anxiety dissipates and then resume the conversation

145*. Your client is a 42 year old woman who has had multiple complaints, over the
years, about physical symptoms that could not be explained by medical conditions. She
expresses her concerns in vague, dramatic ways. She comes to you now in the mental
health department after her appointment with her doctor, complaining about his
frustrating inability to discover the cause of her joint pain. You should...
a. help the client discover the psychosocial causes of her physical symptoms
b. convey sincere interest in the client's physical complaints, and explore with her
what function they might be serving in the client's life
c. encourage the client to join a self-help support group ‘for people troubled by
medical problems
d. acknowledge the client's physical complaints, then move the discussion away
from symptoms

146*. You have been working with a client to improve his self-esteem and overcome
excessive guilt for over two years with no signs of progress, even though you have
changed your therapy strategy on several occasions. You should...
a. terminate and refer to another therapist if the client still wishes to pursue his
treatment goals
b. terminate and inform the client that, like many others, he is not a good candidate
for psychotherapy
c. continue to work with the client and change your therapy strategy again
d. increase the frequency of sessions for an even greater impact

147 * . A marriage and family therapist incurs a “duty to warn” identifiable intended
victims whenever he or she determines that a client presents a...
a. threat to harm others
b. plan to commit a crime
c. serious danger of violence
d. grave disability

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

