Page 368 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

160*. Your client is a successful professional who recently moved to this state from
across the country. He was arrested and convicted for shoplifting, and referred to you for
therapy as a condition of probation. This was the first and only time he has engaged in
shoplifting, and he feels very guilty and foolish for having engaged in stealing. He is not
generally prone to impulsive acts. Your client’s illegal behavior was most likely due to...
a. impulse control disorder NOS
b. antisocial personality traits
c. kleptomania
d. intoxication

161*. Your new client’s record indicates a history of parasomnias which means that the
client...
a. has had difficulty falling asleep and staying asleep
b. sleeps too much
c. experiences abnormal events during sleep
d. experiences somatic complaints for which there is no medical explanation

162*. Your agency is in the process of adopting a new policy which requires you to
inform your supervisor within four hours of making a child abuse report. As a marriage
and family therapist employed by this organization, you should...
a. always obtain a supervisor’s approval prior to making a child abuse report
b. inform your supervisor within four hours of making a child abuse report
c. refuse to inform your supervisor because the child abuse reporting law applies to
you as an individual, not to your supervisor or agency
d. refuse to inform your supervisor unless you determine that it is in the best interest
of the client to do so

163*. Your client, a 33 year old single mother of a 4 year old girl, should be reported for
general neglect under the child abuse and neglect reporting act if...
a. the child is being provided with treatment by spiritual means for asthma
b. she is rejecting a medication for the child after consultation with a physician who
recommends the medication
c. she has failed to provide supervision to the child
d. she has failed to protect the child from severe malnutrition

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

