MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 353

 

98*. Which of the following techniques would you use if you were taking a Behavioral
Therapy approach to the rehabilitation of a group of clients with mental retardation at
your day treatment program?
a. systematic desensitization
b. token economy
c. operant association
d. reflexive conjecture

99*. Your 33 year old client has been troubled by vivid flashbacks after witnessing a
murder at a convenience store hold-up. Which of the following interventions would you
use if you were taking a Behavioral Therapy approach to treatment?
a. imaginal flooding
b. defusing covert meanings 
c. resolving unfinished business
d. resolving problems of resonance

100*. You suspect that your 22 year old client is experiencing a factitious depression.
The client has made numerous suicide threats over the past three months. It will be
necessary to determine the extent to which your client...
a. has assumed, or is striving to assume, a sick role
b. holds beliefs that are not based on factual information
c. has been exposed to stressors
d. relates to you in a domineering manner

101*. You and your client have been using a SUDS scale to measure the client’s anxiety
levels. Your client tells you that, over the past week, her average SUDS rating was 5.
This means that she was about...
a. half as anxious as she has ever been
b. five times more anxious than she was at baseline
c. five times more anxious than she was during the previous week
d. 50% more anxious than the average person

102*. When using Structural Family Therapy with an enmeshed family of a substance
abusing adolescent you should...
a. use homework assignments as probes to test for behavior patterns, then to teach
changes in behavior patterns
b. use paradoxical instruction to prescribe symptoms in order to break up repetitive
communication sequences
c. take a stance of empathic listening, allowing the family to find its own way
d. determine who in the family manifests the best differentiation between thinking
and feeling
