Page 336 MFT PRACTICE, EXAMINATIONS

32*. Your newly referred client, a 42 year old woman who has been a victim of domestic
violence, says “I don’t think there’s much point in me coming to this support group. I
had a friend who came here five or six times and she didn’t seem to get much out of it. I
have my doubts.” Which response will best encourage the client to elaborate on
expressing her concerns?
a. Why don’t you talk to some of the other people who attend? I think you’d get a
different perspective. 
b. Why don’t you come back in a few days after you’ve had a chance to think it over
and we’ll discuss it some more.
c. What are some of those doubts?
d. Many women in your situation are reluctant to reach out for fear of retribution. Could that be why you feel this way?

33*. Your client is a 37 year old man who has avoided air travel since the September 11,
2001 terrorist attack. He says that air travel is much too vulnerable because terrorists
have relatively easy access to airplanes and because the potential damage and publicity
value is so high. His avoidance of air travel has curtailed his business productivity as he
has had to limit himself primarily to local business relationships. He wishes he could fly,
but says “I wouldn’t dare.” Your client’s feelings about flying are best described as...
a. acrophobia
b. specific phobia
c. fear
d. histrionics

34*. Your client is overly compliant. He is very sensitive to cues indicating what your
values and preferences are. As a result, he acts as if he accepts your advice and
suggestions without question, even though you would expect disagreement based on other
things he has said over the past few weeks. Which of the following responses best
demonstrates an honest labeling of the client’s behavior?
a. “You’re accepting a lot of my advice without question, but I sense that you
disagree.”
b. “I’m concerned that you’re not allowing yourself to express yourself freely with
me. Let me reassure you that I accept you and care about you regardless of your
opinions.”
c. “I sense that you might have been exposed to a lot of judgmental treatment by
others in the past. Can you tell me something about that?”
d. “Your response to my advice suggests a very dependent way of relating to me.”

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

