MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 373

 

179*. You are a therapist on staff at a community general hospital. Your new client is a
battered Woman who came to the medical emergency room for treatment of a minor stab
wound inflicted by her husband. She is referred to you for supportive counseling and to
help her find shelter. If the client tells you that she does not want you to report her
husband’s assault to the police you...
a. may or may not report depending on whether or not you believe that such a report
would be in the best interest of the client
b. are not obligated to report because you are not considered to be a “health
practitioner” under the “the domestic violence reporting act”
c. are obligated to report if the client consents to you making a report
d. are not obligated to report because the client did not seek treatment of her wound
from you

180*. You are an experienced family therapist working with a family Whose child’s
troubled behavior was the presenting problem. You should...
a. View the child as the family’s scapegoat
b. View the child as a contributor to the family’s problem
c. identify the person most in need of change, and intervene to get that person to
change 
d. work primarily with the child using play therapy situations that simulate the
family situation

181*. If you were taking a Structural Family Therapy approach to your work with the
family of a substance abusing adolescent, the primary goal of therapy would be to...
a. develop clear and functional communication patterns I
b. improve self-esteem in order to reduce covert communication and mixed
messages
c. develop Well-balanced relationship patterns with a strong parental coalition
d. increase the level of differentiation between family members’ experience of
thought and feeling

182*. When taking a psychodynamic approach to group therapy you would...
a. expect hostility from the group and accept it
b. avoid hostility laden issues
c. focus on resolution of current life problems, not on the group’s process
d. encourage supportive socialization among group members outside of group
sessions

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

