Page 342 p MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

55*. When referring to “supervision” of MFT Interns, the law is referring to a
relationship in which the supervisor has...
a. responsibility for improving the intern’s knowledge and skills
b. greater expertise and experience than the intern has
c. responsibility for and control of the quality of services being provided by the
intern
d. opportunities to directly observe the intern in interactions with clients

56*. You are obligated to report child abuse under the Child Abuse Reporting Act if, in
the course of your professional work, you learn that a minor has...
a. received an injury from a peace officer using reasonable and necessary force to
obtain possession of a weapon in the possession of the child
b. been intentionally touched on the genitals or intimate parts by a caretaker in the
course of normal caretaking responsibilities _
c. been depicted in an act of obscene sexual conduct in a photograph given by your
client to another person
d. been intentionally touched on the genitals by a physician during a medical
examination which the minor did not want to have

57*. Your client, Mr. A, tells you that he has learned that his girlfriend, Ms. B, is also
your client. He says that Ms. B told him that you said Mr. A is a very strong willed
person, and that you therefore recommended that Ms. B work on her self-assertion skills.
Mr. A is angry with you for characterizing him as strong-willed. You should...
a. remind him, in a general way, about your confidentiality practices
b. tell him that you did not comment on his character when you recommended that
Ms. B work on self-assertion, because that would have violated his confidentiality
c. ask him how he would prefer to be described when you speak with Ms. B about him
d. offer to discontinue the two courses of individual therapy in favor of conjoint
sessions with both Mr. A and Ms. B 

58*. When a marriage and family therapist provides services to a person who is
involuntarily detained and treated...
a. the therapist still has an ethical responsibility to obtain the client’s informed
consent to treatment, but only if the client is age 18 or older
b. the therapist still has an ethical responsibility to obtain the client’s informed
consent to treatment
c. the therapist is relieved of the ethical responsibility to obtain the client’s informed
consent to treatment
d. the therapist is relieved of the ethical responsibility to obtain the client’s informed
consent to treatment unless the client objects to the particular form of treatment
being used

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

