Page 352 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

93*. Your new client, Jana Q, is a 24 year old woman with cyclothymic mood swings
who gave birth to her first child three weeks ago. Her father, as well as several others in
her extended family, have had similar mood swings. Her husband, Joe, is very worried
that her moods interfere with her ability to provide proper care for their baby. She
responds defensively, accusing him of trying to put a wedge between her and her baby.
Your intervention strategy should include... 
a. helping Jana develop an empathic understanding of Joe’s perspective by helping
her to recall her own experience of her father’s and other family members’ mood
swings
b. helping Joe to suppress his doubts about Jana’s parenting abilities
c. helping Jana achieve a sense of balance in the relationship by expressing her
doubts about Joe’s parenting abilities
d. distinguishing between cyclothymic and bipolar mood swings

94*. Which of the following would you expect to observe from your 46 year old client
who has a "content of thought" disturbance?
a. neologisms
b. thought blocking
c. tangential speech
d. delusions

95*. Which of the following would you expect to observe from your 46 year old client
who has a "continuity of thought" disturbance?
a. poverty of content of speech
b. overabundant thought
c. magical thinking
d. circumstantial thinking

96*. If you were taking a behavioral approach to treating your client's phobia of dogs,
which of the following techniques would you not be using?
a. flooding
b. I graduated exposure
c. abreaction
d. systematic desensitization

97*. In order to best help your substance abusing client initiate abstinence you should...
a. focus on emerging desires and interests as they arise in the here and now moment
b. encourage the client to review the negative and often delayed consequences of
their substance use
c. set long term abstinence goals that tie in with the client's hopes and aspirations
d. set short term abstinence goals that are readily achievable

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

