MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 341

 

52*. The Board of Behavioral Sciences can suspend or revoke the license of any MFT
who uses a controlled substance...
a. without a prescription
b. if the MFT refuses to accept treatment and recovery services
c. to the extent that such use is dangerous or injurious to the MP T
d. in a manner which is unbecoming of a person of professional status

53*. Your client is a 27 year old carpenter and married father of four who is seeing you
for help in overcoming a problem of stimulant dependence. In the course of treatment
you should do all of the following except...
a. counsel the client to examine the positive, immediate, but short-term
consequences, as well as the negative and often delayed consequences of use
b. encourage the client to sleep, eat, and gradually begin a program of exercise
c. encourage the client to share descriptions of his substance use experiences with
other substance abusers who are in recovery
d. openly discuss the association between the client's substance use and promiscuous
sex, compulsive masturbation, and other potentially problematic sexual behavior

54*. Your client is a 32 year old accountant and married father of two who is seeing you
for help in overcoming a problem of stimulant dependence which he reports has lead to
serious impairment of his relationships with family members as well as at work. The
client has also engaged in use of "secondary drugs" including tobacco (cigars), caffeine
(coffee), and marijuana, but the client is unaware of any immediate adverse consequences
or compulsive use pattern related to these other substances. You should...
a. encourage the client to abstain from marijuana because it is illegal, but not to
abstain from tobacco or caffeine because they are legal substances
b. encourage the client to abstain from all three other substances if they have become
triggers for the client's desire to use stimulants
c. encourage the client to abstain from all three other substances because they are not
healthy, even though they may not have immediate adverse consequences
d. encourage the client to continue using tobacco and caffeine if he chooses to do so
because he needs to focus on the more difficult challenge of abstaining from
stimulant use

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

