Page 372 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

175*. Your psychotherapy client of six months glances at your wedding ring and asks if
you get along any better with your spouse than she does with hers. You should...
a. remind her of the ground rules that you and she established regarding your role
relationships during the engagement phase of treatment
b. describe the more positive aspects of your marriage as a form of modeling
c. describe the problems between you and your spouse so that the client doesn’t feel
alone with her problem
d. explore her tendency to be intrusive

176*. In taking a Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy View of your therapy group’s
psychodynamic themes during the initial stage of group development you should
recognize that...
a. hostility toward you as the therapist is due to frustrated magical expectations and
wishful thinking
b. your clients are likely to bond with one another because they all identify with you
as their therapist
c. members search for similarities because a sense of universality relieves anxiety
d. members feel anxiety about getting too close

177*. If you were taking a Cognitive Therapy approach to your treatment of a young
woman with a persistently depressed mood you would recognize that the client’s...
a. emotions lead to her cognitive appraisals
b. private events are thoughts, perceptions and self-statements that mediate the
effects of circumstances
c. private events are interpersonal interactions that shape the client’s automatic
thoughts
d. sense of self is fragmented

178*. You and your colleague, a clinical psychologist, are jointly interviewing a 4 year
old child who informs both of you that she has been sexually molested. You each have a
reasonable suspicion that her statement is reliable. Which of the following is true?
a. if you and the psychologist agree that she will make the report, then you are not
obliged to also make a report
b. if you and the psychologist agree that she will make the report, then you are not
obliged to also make the report, but only if you both sign the written report
c. both you and the psychologist must each make a report, each presenting the
information as you understand it
d. neither you nor the psychologist must make a report because the child is only 4
years old and you have no independent, corroborating evidence that her claim is
valid

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

