MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 345

65 *. You are working with a new client, a 25 year old cocaine dependent man, Who has
been considering the possibility of abstinence and is now beginning to plan to take action.
At this stage of recovery you should...
a. help the client identify personally relevant goals and objectives for recovery
b. discuss substance use in a general way, but do not confront the client with his own
abuse patterns yet
c. focus on helping the client identify signs and symptoms of relapse risk
d. explain to the client why he has been abusing cocaine

66*. You have been assigned to work with a self-help group of adoptive parents in which
group members fail to attend meetings regularly, do not listen to other members or accept
their opinions, and are usually unwilling to change their minds to take on the views of
others. How would you best describe this group’s dynamics?
a. enmeshed
b. cohesive
c. non-cohesive
d. a closed system

67*. Your client, a 35 year old immigrant from Chile, is preoccupied with the fear of
having a serious disease based on his misinterpretation of common aches and pains. This
client is best described as...
a. histrionic
b. hypochondriacal
c. having conversion symptoms
d. having culturally appropriate experiences

68*. Your client complains of an appetite disturbance, insomnia, and low energy with a
sense of fatigue. If your client also feels sad, and if these symptoms are not due to a
medical condition, your client probably has a...
a. dysthymia, major depression, or bipolar disorder
b. dysthymia but not major depression or bipolar disorder
c. major depression but not dysthymia or bipolar disorder
d. bipolar disorder but not dysthymia or major depression

69*. Your 25 year old client is experiencing clouded consciousness with difficulty
focusing and shifting attention. His symptoms developed over a short period of time and
tend to fluctuate during the course of the day. Your client...
a. has an adult onset attention deficit disorder
b. is experiencing amphetamine withdrawal delirium
c. is experiencing a panic attack
d. has a medical condition

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

