MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 331

 

15*. Your client is a single mother Whose 15 year old son has been experiencing a
variety of behavioral problems associated with oppositional, defiant behavior and thrill
seeking with a rowdy group of peers. Because she has been socially isolated most of her
life, she ventilates her emotions freely during sessions with you, to the point where she
feels embarrassed. The first thing you should do is...
a. paraphrase her comments in a way that directs attention away from affect and
more to factual aspects of the situation until she is ready for greater self-revelation
b. assure her that you are taking a professionally detached, nonjudgmental stance and
that she should feel safe
c. encourage her to participate more actively in social support networks so that she
will not feel so much pressure to reveal so much in any one relationship
d. encourage her to see you for conjoint sessions with her son in order to reduce the
focus on herself

16*. Your client is a 55 year old man with a problem of alcohol dependence and
dysthymic disorder. He comes to see you in crisis, complaining of problems with
inappropriate anger, appetite disturbance, low self-esteem, and social withdrawal. Which
of the following would be the most appropriate objective for inclusion in this client's
treatment plan?
a. reduce depression by 50% by six months &om this date
b. eliminate appetite disturbance by six months from this date
c. restore client to precrisis level of functioning
d. attend at least two recreational groups at least once per week for two months by
May 1

17*. Your new client is a 26 year old carpenter who is troubled by depression. In order
to determine whether or not he has a major depressive disorder versus dysthymia, you
will need to find out...
a. whether or not he experiences vegetative symptoms of depression
b. whether or not his depression is caused or exacerbated by use of substances
c. if he has ever been suicidal while depressed
d. if he is depressed most of the day nearly every day

18*. Informed consent to therapy should be obtained...
a. as early as feasible in the therapeutic relationship
b. prior to accepting the applicant as a client
c. prior to the initial face to face contact .
d. prior to formulating a formal treatment plan
 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

