Page 370 , MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

168*. You have received a referral of a Chinese-American family that immigrated to the
United States ten years ago. The mother requires treatment of a Major Depressive
Disorder. The two youngest children were educated exclusively in American schools and
are fluent in both English and Mandarin. The parents do not speak any English and the
two older children, now living independently, have very limited English skills. You are
unable to arrange a referral for a Mandarin speaking therapist. The best approach would
be to...
a. use the two younger children as translators to protect the family’s right to privacy
b. request that an older bilingual family member join the sessions
c. engage a translator after evaluating his or her qualifications
d. refer out to a supportive community service in the Chinese-American community
such as a church or community center

169*. If there is a duty to warn and protect under California law, the therapist must make
reasonable efforts to communicate the threat to... 
a. the victim or victims and to a law enforcement agency
b. the victim but not necessarily to a law enforcement agency
c. a law enforcement agency but not necessarily to the victim
d. his or her supervisor

170*. “Forced choice” confrontations are especially relevant to working with...
a. substance abusing clients who have a well established pattern of recovery
b. substance abusing clients who are in denial or just beginning to consider making
changes
c. obsessive compulsive clients who have difficulty making decisions
d. oppositional children


171*. Your client has shared with you a long history of conflict with her husband.
Recently, however, the sessions have focused on her son who is currently in his first year
of high school. Although it appears that her son has adjusted to the transition
successfully, she continues to focus on what may happen with her son during these
difficult teenage years. Her husband joins the therapy for one session and demonstrates
that he shares his wife’s concerns. You sense that a new alliance has been created
between the parents as a result of this shared concern. According to Family Systems
Theory, this couple is using which strategy to handle their personal conflict?
a. distraction
b. triangulation
c. displacement
d. negotiation

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

