MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 363


140*. Your depressed client has an avoidant personality disorder. She has repeatedly
failed to adhere to her own mutually developed treatment regimen as evidenced by failure
to arrive at appointments, discontinuing medications without consulting staff, and failure
to follow through on agreed upon homework assignments. Which of the following
objectives should be pursued first, assuming that all four objectives need to be
accomplished?
a. client will attend 80% of therapy appointments on time for two months
b. client will consistently maintain a log of medication use for one month
c. client will regularly inform staff of medication side effects, or their absence,
without prompting
d. client will identify at least four positive effects of previous compliance

141*. Your client is in a state of crisis. Which of the following techniques would your
client be likely to use to release inner tension in a way that fails to effectively solve reality
problems?
a. magical thinking
b. breaking down the problem into its parts
c. engaging social supports for problem solving
d. catharsis

142*. When providing supportive therapy services to your 45 year old client, a Woman
with a long standing bipolar disorder and a problem of substance abuse, it is best to focus
on a specific, immediate problem rather than a general, long term issue for all of the
following reasons except...

a. this kind of focus builds a sense of trust
b. this is probably the kind of problem the client is interested in
c. the client probably wants help in the shortest possible time and this kind of focus
is most likely to achieve that
d. this kind of focus is associated with short term goals which may be the only kind
that the client views as real .

143*. In assessing the extent to which your oppositional, defiant adolescent client views
you as genuine, you should determine how your client sees you with regard to...
a. your expression of emotion versus intellectualizing about the client’s concerns
b. your attempts to communicate acceptance versus a judgmental stance
c. your efforts to show expressions of caring concern for the client’s welfare
d. your willingness to admit when you are disturbed by some of the things your
client says to you
 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

