7*. You give a much needed referral to a very dysfunctional, chemically dependent
client. The client seems interested but, when you see her a week later, she tells you that
she is ambivalent about following through with the referral and has not yet called to set
up an appointment. You should...
a. call to make the appointment for the client to help break through the client’ s
inertia
b. clarify the purpose of the referral, explore the client’s ambivalence, and encourage
the client to follow through
c. clarify the purpose of the referral, explore the client’s ambivalence, and arrange
for a representative of the referral agency to make a home visit to the client
d. accept the client’s right to refuse this or any other referral unless she is in
imminent danger

8*. Your client is a 10 year old boy who is persistently and pervasively irritable. He
alienates peers with a negativistic, “grouchy” attitude. Your client should be assessed
for...
a. depression
b. borderline personality disorder
c. impulse control problems
d. cognitive impairment

9*. In treating a 42 year old man who has a panic disorder, you should encourage the
client to...
a. try to suppress the symptoms so they will come under the client’s conscious
control
b. exaggerate the symptoms so they will spontaneously extinguish
c. allow himself to have symptoms so that they will spontaneously extinguish A
d. distract himself from a conscious experience of the symptoms

10*. If you were using the classic Dialectic Behavioral Therapy model with a Borderline
Personality Disorder client, you would provide and/or arrange for the client to receive...
a. an eclectic combination of interventions involving weekly group and individuals
sessions over a 1 year period
b. primarily group therapy emphasizing social skills development over an intensive
three month period ,
c. primarily individual therapy sessions with special attention to behavioral goals
addressed in sequence over an intensive six week period
d. primarily behaviorally oriented case management services including work with
collaterals over a 1 year period

