Page 338 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

39*. Your client is a 35 year old man who hunts for reasons to justify his behavior and
beliefs. The reasons he comes up with are often inconsistent with one another, but he is
unable to recognize the inconsistency and has a strong defensive reaction when his
reasons are questioned. Your client is using which of the following defenses?
a. rationalization 
b. intellectualization
c. displacement
d. reaction formation

40*. A marriage and family therapist has abandoned a client if he or she terminates a
client...
a. who is acutely ill
b. who requests continued service and the therapist is logistically and legally capable
of providing the requested continued service
c. without making reasonable arrangements for the continuation of treatment
d. to further the therapist’s own self-interest

41*. Your client is a 27 year old woman who has physically and sexually abused her
neighbor’s 4 year old daughter. She is seeing you for therapy as a condition of her
probation plan. You have an ethical obligation to...
a. inform your client about the extent of her right to refuse services
b. obtain the probation officer’s approval of the treatment plan goals and objectives
c. inform the child’s mother regarding your client’s progress in treatment
d. inform the court of any crime revealed to you by the client during sessions

42*. When engaging a collection agency to obtain an unpaid balance from a former client
you...
a. should only provide the client’s name and address
b. should not disclose any clinical information about the client
c. should disclose only identifying information and information regarding the
duration of treatment, fees, and number of sessions attended by the client
d. should disclose only identifying information and information regarding any risks
that might pose a danger to staff of the collection agency  

43*. When using “behavioral specification” with your client, an anxious 20 year old
college sophomore, you should teach the client to...
a. choose a desired behavioral objective from among several options
b. explain why a particular behavior emerges when it does
c. describe the purpose for wanting to change a particular behavior
d. specify those behaviors which define a problem for the client, and specify
conditions associated with the emergence of the problem behavior

 
