Page 340 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 48*. Your new client tells you that she has experienced a serious trauma involving a
violent assault. In order to reduce the likelihood of developing PTSD you and the client
should use a crisis intervention approach in which you...
a. focus on disclosing the events, explore troubling reactions, identify coping
strategies
b. focus on the client’s own strengths, coping strategies and a plan of action, not on
the trauma
c. focus on uncovering the nature of the trauma and its relationship to traumas the
client has experienced in the past
d. a crisis intervention approach may be helpful, but it will not reduce the likelihood
of developing PTSD following a violent trauma

49*. Your client is a 24 year old African American law student who was referred to the
university counseling center after becoming repeatedly agitated and aggressive in class.
One of his instructors contacted you to say that the student is accusing fellow students of
ridiculing him behind his back and lobbying professors to give him poor grades. You
conduct a diagnostic assessment in which you are considering the possibility of a
paranoid personality disorder. You should determine that this is an incorrect diagnosis if
you find that your client...
a. has previously been exposed to significant prejudice and discrimination
b. has signs of prodromal paranoid schizophrenia
c. views his suspiciousness and aggressiveness as excessive
d. has been this way since early childhood

50*. You are working with an ll year old boy to overcome symptoms of a conduct
disorder which have lead to repeated expulsions from school. The youth says that he
wants to stop getting kicked out of school, but he has not been able or willing to change
his aggressive, defiant conduct. A treatment plan for this child should include...
a. Parent Training
b. Relaxation Training
c. Exposure and Response Prevention
d. Wellness Recovery Action Plan

51*. The need to inform clients of possible limitations regarding their right to
confidentiality is...
a. an ethical responsibility but not a legal requirement under California law
b. a legal requirement under California law but not an ethical responsibility
c. both an ethical responsibility and a legal requirement under California law
d. neither an ethical responsibility nor a legal requirement under California law

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

