MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 113

 
1'. Your sense of disgust became visible upon hearing of your client's sexually abusive
acts toward a young child. It clearly showed by the grimace on your face and other
nonverbal behavior. You should...
a. acknowledge your reaction by mentioning it to the client, attributing it to the
abusive behavior and not to the client as a person
b. honestly tell the client that he is disgusting
c. consciously suppress the reaction and redirect your attention to the client, not
yourself
d. ignore the reaction and emphasize acceptance of the client

2'. Your depressed, middle aged client is an acculturated immigrant from Puerto Rico.
He says that he is overwhelmed by a series of personal crises in the family and on the job.
As a result he has been confused and anxious to the point where he fears that he might be
going crazy. The first thing you should do is...

a. assure the client that his is a normal reaction to stress
b. help the client identify several specific problem areas and rank them in terms of

which should be attended to first
c. recommend referral to a physician for psychotropic medications
d. evoke the client's catastrophic fantasies and help work them through

3'. Mr. Carls came to see you at the family service agency seeking advice. He wants you
to tell him whether he should eliminate his abusive daughter from his will or set up a trusteeship for her in the will. You should...

a. advise him to establish the trusteeship contingent upon six months of sobriety

b. advise him to eliminate her from the will until she is clean and sober

c. establish guidelines for the therapist-client contract in which role relationships are

clarified
d. let him know that he needs to see an attorney, not an MFT

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 114 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

4'. Bob K. has been your client in individual therapy for the past 9 months, dealing with
a life long problem of low self-esteem. Recently he and his wife have had heated quarrels
about whether to purchase a car now or wait until next year. He asks if you would meet
with both him and his wife for four or five sessions to resolve the problem. The first
thing you should do is to... 
a. set up conjoint sessions, but limit them to no? more than five and agree to focus
only on resolving the purchase decision
b. set up conjoint sessions and use them as an opportunity to assess Bob's marital
relationship as a context for his self-esteem problem
c. A do not agree to see them but offer a referral to another therapist for conjoint
sessions

d. confront Bob with the fact that his request is a resistance to dealing with his own
issues in therapy

5'. Your client of three months informs you that she has been taking a tranquilizer for the

past three months which was prescribed to her by her husband, a physician. She states
that he is Board Certified and has other highly respected credentials in his field. You
should...

a. advise her to consult a physician for medication monitoring with whom she does
not have a personal relationship

b. advise her to discontinue the tranquilizer now that she has access to psychotherapy
as a way of dealing with her anxiety

c. assess the nature of the marital relationship to see if the husband is capable of
making objective decisions about his wife's medication use

d. do nothing because medication issues are not within an MP T 's scope of practice

6'. Your client, Mrs. T, asks if you would use "light trance work" in your sessions with
her. You have not been trained in using this technique. However, you have experienced
it yourself in experiential training workshops that you have attended and you feel familiar
with the technique. You should...
a. offer to provide the requested service but be clear that you have not had specific
training in it
b. decline to provide the requested service until you have received specific training
c. decline to provide the service, explaining that trance work is not Within an MFT 's
scope of practice

d. decline to provide the service because the therapist, and not the client, should be
determining which treatment techniques to use

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 115

 

7'. Your client has been dealing with problems of emotional lability and passive
aggressive behavior. When you confront the client with the statement that his anger
toward his boss is self-destructive, he reminds you that you are the one who encouraged
open expression of feelings in the first place. This client is challenging your...

a. respect for client self-determination

b. acceptance

c. self-congruence

d. scope of practice

8'. You are emphasizing the practice of accurate empathy in your work with Hal W, a
twenty year old college student who has been struggling with autonomy and identity
formation. The inferences you draw through your use of accurate empathy should...

a. be based on the client's psychodynamics

b. depend on the effectiveness of your own personal therapy

c. be verified by the client

d. be supportive, not confrontive

9'. A man and his wife never seem to see things eye to eye. When he judges something
favorably, she judges the same thing negatively. When he decides that their best course
of action is in one direction, she usually decides that their best course of action is to go in

the opposite direction. According to Psychodynamic Theory these clients...
a. experience role confusion
b. are fixated on oedipal conflicts
c. use isolation as a defense
d. have failed to accept and integrate their ambivalences

10'. Your client, Mr. P., initially came to see you for help with impulse control problems,
including moderately assaultive encounters with co-workers. He has attended sessions

regularly for three months. Now he comes up with reasons for missing every second or
third session. You should take this as an indication of...
a. resistance
b. a need to renegotiate the appointment schedule
c. Mr. P's hostility toward the therapist
d. Mr. P's readiness to terminate

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 116 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

11'. Your client, Terry Simmons, is a fifty year old divorced man who tells you that he
has felt confused ever since his brother died in an automobile accident three months ago.

If your objective is to encourage the client's deeper self-exploration, you should ask
which of these questions?

a. Were you close to your brother?

b. What's that been like for you?
c. Why do you suppose you've become confused?
d. Did you ever feel that way before your brother's death?

12'. Your client meets criteria for an obsessive compulsive personality disorder. It

would be reasonable to expect that this client will manifest which of the following
behaviors during therapy sessions?
a. constantly seeking reassurance, approval and praise
b. recurrent thoughts and impulses that are ego dystonic
c. indecisiveness in decision making
d. grandiosity

13'. A client has revealed specific information that you are required by law to report.

However, your supervisor insists that you refrain from reporting because of the agency's
policy on confidentiality. You should...
a. not make the report
b. make the report
c. gain your supervisor's agreement, then make the report
d. consult an attorney before taking any of the above actions

14'. You are using a Brief Psychotherapy approach with a highly motivated,
psychologically minded client. The therapy will be insight oriented and focused on the
identification and exploration of psychodynamics. You should...

a. encourage transference to develop through regressive catharsis

b. explain that termination will occur when specific objectives are achieved

c. try to discover the initial cause of the client's anxiety arousing conflicts

d. encourage a focus on a particular theme, not a free flow of regressive catharsis
and exploration

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 1 1 7

 

15'. A man calls to learn the current address of Mr. Anderson, one of your clients. He
says that he is the executor of Mrs. Anderson's aunt's estate and that Mr. Anderson is due

to receive a small inheritance. Which of the following statements should you make to the

caller?
a. "Mr. Anderson's records are strictly confidential."

b. "Send a letter with your return address. If the person you seek is known to this

agency he will be informed of your call.''
c. "If you leave your phone number I'll ask Mr. Anderson to call you, if he chooses

to."
d. "I can't reveal information about our clients."

16'. Glen and Maria have sought your help to resolve what they call "communication

problems." Glen had an extramarital affair several years ago and speaks openly of his
attraction to other women. Maria is hostile and highly critical of Glen in a sarcastic
manner, but doesn't directly tell him how she feels or what she wants. In order to provide

the most effective therapy for these marital problems you should use an approach

involving...
a. individual psychotherapy focused on the person who is the primary cause of the

marital dysfunction
b. work with couples that develops communication skills
c. use of cotherapists
d. behavioral therapy focusing on respondent behaviors

17'. In reviewing your new client's previous clinical records you see that it repeatedly
refers to your client's fsurvivor guilt." You should take this to mean...
a. the paradoxical guilt felt by serial killers when a victim survives their assault
b. feelings of guilt about surviving when other members of one's group did not
c. the guilt felt by survivors of childhood sexual abuse, in which they blame
themselves for their own abuse E
d. the guilt felt by those who exploit survivors of a natural disaster

18'. For the past several years your client has been preoccupied with fears of having, or
the idea that she actually has, a serious disease based on her misinterpretation of bodily
symptoms. Her anxious preoccupation persists despite having been provided with
appropriate medical reassurance. She is not delusional, but her preoccupation causes
clinically significant distress. You should expect all of the following from this client

except...
a. "doctor shopping"
b. anger and resentment toward medical caretakers
c. obsessive compulsive personality patterns
d. hypomanic symptoms

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 1 18 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

19'. You ask the client "Could you describe what life was like in the family of your
childhood?" The client responds "You want to know what I think about mainstream
America, but what I really want to know about is this. Why must we have illness and
disease when people are being blamed for nothing? Why? If I could get out of here I
don't know what I would do." Your assessment should reflect the fact that this client is
exhibiting...

a. magical thinking

b. loose associations

c. mood-congruent psychotic features

d. ideas of reference

20'. You are conducting a comprehensive clinical assessment with a woman of Asian
ancestry who presents with a long history of derealization, paranoia, illusions, distortions,
and magical thinking dating back to adolescence. The client also has difficulty
modulating affect and uses primitive coping mechanisms. The most likely clinical
problem experienced by this client is...

a. schizophrenia

b. personality disorder

c. generalized anxiety disorder

d. adjustment reaction to stress

21'. Your client is a fifty year old substance abuser whose marijuana and alcohol use

began at age 11. As compared to other substance abusers, he has more psychiatric
symptoms, and uses a wider variety of substances. Substance abusing clients such as this

are more likely than other substance abusers to have a high prevalence of...
a. addictive personality
b. temporal lobe epilepsy
c. alcohol abuse
d. comorbid personality disorder

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 119

 

22'. You receive several new referrals to treat individuals who have long standing,
pervasive and inflexible personality patterns that significantly interfere with their
psychosocial functioning. These traits include excessive suspiciousness, excessively
strong emotional response to meaningless gestures by others, and extreme emotional
lability. You should use any of the following interventions in the treatment of these

clients except...
a. crisis management
b. Client Centered Therapy
c. behavioral therapy
d. peer confrontation through treatment groups

23'. Micky, a seven year old boy of African American ancestry, refuses to go to school.
He is willing to go with his mother, but when she leaves he cries hysterically until she
returns and takes him with her. Your diagnostic assessment should view Micky's

problem as...
a. school phobia
b. separation anxiety
c. either school phobia or separation anxiety
d. normal behavior for an eight year old child

24'. All of the following kinds of clients might experience distractibility in the presence
of anxiety arousing circumstances. Which ones should you expect to commonly
experience distractibility in the absence of anxiety arousing circumstances?

a. people with avoidant personality disorder

b. people with schizophrenia

c. normal adults of the African American culture

d. normal adults of Latino cultures.

25'. You will be using a "psychosocial rehabilitation" approach to treat your agency's
psychiatric clients with severe and persistent mental illnesses. In designing this program
you should arrange to help the clients to do which of the following?

a. choose, get and keep jobs

b. renegotiate family role relationships

c. actively participate in sheltered workshops

d. learn job skills thoroughly before placement in a job situation

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 120 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

26'. If a marriage and family therapist has a sexual relationship with a former client
whose therapy was terminated three years ago...
a. the therapist's license will be revoked
b. the therapist has no obligations which are any different than they would be in a
sexual relationship with any other person

c. the therapist has a burden to demonstrate that there has been no exploitation or
injury to the clients immediate family

d. the therapist must first document the basis for determining that the relationship
will not be harmful to the former client

27'. In your work as a patient services counselor in a medical setting you are treating
several patients who deny their depression. They complain of problems such as
headache, aches and pains around joints, backache, and fatigue, yet there is no
physiological or physical basis for these complaints. You should view these clients as
having... .

a. masked depression

b. a psychosomatic disorder

c. a factitious disorder

d. psychomotor retardation

28'. Your client's record shows that he has been successfully treated with
electroconvulsive therapy. This client probably has a history of...
a. extreme anxiety 
b. psychosis
c. antisocial personality disorder
d. depression

29'. Some of your severely depressed clients have been treated only with
pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy, whereas other clients have also been treated with
electroconvulsive therapy. As compared to your other clients, those who have been
treated with ECT are more likely to experience...

a. more rapid symptom reduction in a greater proportion of clients with a lower risk
b. more limited symptom reduction in a lesser proportion of clients with a lower risk
c. more limited symptom reduction but with a higher risk

d. more rapid symptom reduction but with a higher risk

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 121

30'. Your client complains of lapses in attention and concentration that have caused
problems on the job. The client reports two recent minor auto accidents and says that
marital discord has been increasing over the past year. He says, "She complains about my
snoring. She complains about my gaining weight. She just complains." You should refer
your client for a medical evaluation to be checked for...

a. obstructive sleep apnea syndrome

b. circadian rhythm sleep disorder

c. attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder in a residual state

d. pica

31'. You are assessing relationship patterns in a family with a rebellious adolescent son
and two younger daughters. Dysfunctional communication in the family has reached a
steady state. You should expect that the dysfunctional communication patterns in this
family will have all of the following characteristics except... ,
a. all system members participate in maintaining the patterns
b. the patterns serve a purpose, even though they may be dysfunctional for some

purposes
c. the patterns will change somewhat as circumstances change, but only to a limited

degree
d. the patterns will eventually shift toward a healthy resolution if the family is
provided with sufficient community resources

32'. You are conducting an assessment with an 83 year old client who has recently been
given a pair of crutches. Which of the following would be the most appropriate thing for
you to say if you needed to know about the adequacy of the client's crutches?

a. Are you managing better with crutches now, and how about your shoes? Do they

fit well?

b. How are things working out with your crutches now?

c. Your crutches seem to be working out much better now, aren't they?

d. Is there anything you want to let me know about your crutches?

33'. You are leading a support group at a hospital. While discussing a client's reaction to
the recent death of her husband, one of the clients says "And what about you? Have you
ever lost someone so close?" Assuming that you have experienced such a loss, your best
response would be...

a. I don't think that will really help us accomplish what we're here for today.

b. We're not here to talk about me. The question is, how do you feel about your
loss?
c. Why do you ask?
d. Yes I have. Are you saying that it would be hard for someone to understand what

it's like to lose a loved one unless they've been through it?
 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 122 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

34'. You are interviewing a new client who reveals that her husband has severely beaten
her in the past, to the point where she once had to be hospitalized for a fracture. The
abuse abated for a while, but over the past two weeks he has begun to shove her and
throw things at her. You should inform the client about all of the following except...

a. that it is not her fault

b. that she needs to determine what she does to provoke the attacks as a way of

decreasing their frequency

c. that battering is against the law
d. that battering is not unusual and that it happens to all types of women

35'. Your client is a 33 year old woman with schizophrenia who is very stable when she
takes her antipsychotic medications regularly. However, she occasionally neglects to take
her pills because she either forgets or overestimates her recovery. When this happens she
rapidly becomes delusional, suicidal and needs hospitalization. This client could most

benefit from...
a. electroconvulsive therapy
b. psychosocial rehabilitation for social support at times of decompensation
c. injectable medications
d. behavior modification to stabilize the habit of taking her pills

36'. Your client has a long history of dysthymic disorder. She complains of various
somatic ailments but does not consider herself to be sad or to have a depressed mood.

She seeks help in adapting to a new job with a domineering supervisor because she fears 
that she will "lose my cool in front of him and be out of a job." She says that she does not

want to deal with long term personality change. You should focus your approach to this
case on...
a. helping the client clarify the nature of the problematic relationship at a work and
explore alternative coping strategies
b. helping her see the repetitive nature of her problems with authority figures over
the years in order to refocus the problem on personality change
c. giving advice regarding how to approach the supervisor
d. non-directive, supportive listening in order to encourage deeper self exploration


BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 123

37'. When tracking the psychodynamic themes of your therapy group's process, you see
counterdependents and defenders emerge during the exploring and testing phase. These

group members' roles refer to the stance they take in relation to...

a. the therapist

b. the group scapegoat

c. their parents

d. the weakest group member

38'. In your insight oriented, intensive psychotherapy group, you should expect that
realistic (non-transference) sources of rebellion against you as the therapist might arise
for all of the following reasons except one. Which one?
a. you are ambiguous

b. you are deliberately enigmatic

c. you act overly authoritative yet offer no structure or guidelines

d. you assume a position of authoritative leadership

39'. You are forming an intensive psychotherapy group at a community mental health
clinic. The group's purpose will be personality reconstruction. In deciding who to admit
to your group, you should exclude clients who are...
a. either brain damaged, suicidal or sociopathic
b. either schizophrenic, neurotic, or extremely narcissistic
c. either acutely psychotic, brain damaged, or physically disabled
d. diagnosed with either dysthymia, generalized anxiety disorder, or adjustment
disorder

40'. Your new clients' previous therapist used Satir's Conjoint Family Therapy. These

clients probably learned from their previous therapist that marital problems result from...
a. problems with dominance hierarchies in the family
b. unresolved covert sexual conflicts
c. low self-esteem which leads to a fear of rejection which in turn leads to

dysfunctional communication
d. a failure to differentiate thoughts from feelings which is transmitted through the

family culture across generations

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 124 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

41'. You are leading a psychoeducational group for parents of elementary school age
children with behavior problems. They all have significant dysfunctional communication
patterns within the family. In teaching these parents to communicate more effectively

with their children, you should...

a. demonstrate the communication skill, ask the parents to practice, then give
feedback

b. interpret the motivations behind the parents' dysfunctional communication

c. provide a supportive relationship so that the parents can discover effective
communication skills through their own natural experience

d. communicate effectively with their children so that they can learn from your

example as a model

42'. You are seeing a family in which a teenage son got his ear pierced. As a result, the
mother became deeply depressed, shouting "how could you do this to me?" The father
broke a piece of furniture in anger, proclaiming "you'll have the neighbors talking about
us for months". You should View this family as...

a. disengaged

b. codependent
c. enmeshed
d. inflexibly structured

43'. Mrs. K. complains that her twelve year old son, Daniel, has been hostile and
disrespectful to his parents, and to other adults as well, ever since he was a toddler. Both
she and her husband are willing to work with you in family therapy, "as long as you can
show him how to become a decent and respectful person." In your Social Systems
Approach to family therapy you should view this symptom bearing child as...

a. a contributor to the problem, an essential part of a continuing sequence of

behavior among all people involved

b. the family's scapegoat

c. the victim of parental pathology

d. the victim of societal neglect

44'. Your client is an anxious, self-depreciating 17 year old girl. She has been struggling
with the issue of psychological separation from her family. She says that she loves her
parents very much, and that she doesn't want to hurt them, but she adds that "I need to
live my own life and I just don't see things the way they do." The treatment method of

choice is...
a. Conjoint Family Therapy
b. Structural Family Therapy
c. individual therapy
d. residential treatment

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 125

45'. Your colleague, a psychologist, refers his former client to you. It appears that his

reason for terminating the client is to enter into a sexual relationship with her. You may...
a. charge your new client a fee for collaborating with the referring psychologist
b. not charge your new client a fee for collaborating with the referring psychologist
c. not pay a referral fee to the psychologist, but may refer another client to him in

exchange for his referral to you

d. not accept the referral

46'. Your client is an otherwise healthy and well functioning woman who has recently
survived a major natural disaster. She lost her home in another state, and moved to
California "to get away from it all? Now she is homeless, lacks a local social support
network, and feels "overwhelmed by all these problems? "This is hopeless," she says. "I
don't know where to begin? Your treatment approach with this client should be...

a. supportive, authoritative, and directive

b. exploratory, warm, and empathic

c. charismatic, active, and dramatic

d. exploratory, passive, and accepting

47'. Your comprehensive clinical assessments of your clients should be...
a. based on survey research techniques
b. a therapeutic process
c. the outcome of a treatment plan
d. completed within two sessions

48'. In using accurate empathy with an extremely fearful client you will need to use...
a. imagination
b. fantasy
c. technical skill
d. knowledge of psychopathology

49'. In working with clients from Latino cultures you should anticipate that all of the
following will tend to be true except...

a. mental and physical functioning are sharply differentiated

b. indigenous healers and folkremedies are geared to treating the person, not a

symptom
c. intergenerational bonds in a cohesive, large extended family are normative
d. role strain and marital conflict may result in many families when a married

woman works outside the home 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 126 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

50'. Your new client, a middle aged man with a long history of self-doubt and disturbed
sense of identity, reports that he has been in psychotherapy before over a three year period
with a Gestalt therapist. In the course of receiving Gestalt therapy this client has probably
learned to view psychopathology as...

a. a phobic avoidance of parts of himself

b. the result of fixations caused by overindulgences in early life

c. non-existent

d. a surfeit of ineffective behaviors

51'. Bill K. was hospitalized in a psychiatric setting following a dramatic suicide
attempt. He treats some of the staff as ideally compassionate and others as callous or
malevolent. You should recognize Bill's way of relating with hospital staff as...

a. malingering

b. identification
c. psychic numbing
d. splitting

52'. Which diagnosis would you expect to be most likely for a person who has made a
dramatic suicide attempt and, when hospitalized, treats some of the staff as ideally
compassionate and others as callous or malevolent?

a. hebephrenic schizophrenia

b. borderline personality disorder

c. dependent personality disorder

d. somatization disorder

53'. Your former client's husband requests help in dealing with his sense of insecurity
and social anxiety. If you were to use a Gestalt therapy approach you would be basing

interventions on concepts and principles drawn from...
a. Psychoanalytic Theory

b. Humanistic Psychology
c. Learning Theory
d. Rankian Psychology

54'. Your client reveals that he has burglarized a neighbor's house to obtain a piece of
jewelry that he has always admired. You...

a. may not report his crime unless you have his informed consent to do so
b. may not report his crime even if you have his informed consent to do so
c. must report his crime with or without his consent
d. may report his crime with or without his consent

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MF T PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 127

55'.  client presents with a variety of symptoms and meets the criteria for several
clinical diagnoses. She says that some of her symptoms vary with the seasons. If this is
true, you should expect that it would most likely be true for which of this client's

symptoms?
a. anxiety
b. guilt
c. depression
d. cognitive functioning

56'. You are conducting a psychoeducational workshop where one of the members
complains that she used to be blamed for causing her son's psychotic symptoms, but now
she has learned that schizophrenia is caused by genetic defects. You should inform this
person that recent research demonstrates that genetic abnormalities...

a. do, in fact, cause schizophrenia

b. predispose a person to schizophrenia, but do not necessarily cause it

c. exacerbate schizophrenia symptoms

d. are unrelated to schizophrenia

57'. Your client is a deeply depressed college student, age twenty, who has just begun to
take tricyclic antidepressant medication. She says that she has taken her medications for
one week now but "they're not working. I don"t feel any different." How long should
this client continue to take her medication to determine whether or not it is effective?

a. three to six hours

b. three to six days

c. one to four weeks .

d. four to six weeks

58'. As a marriage and family therapist you have an ethical responsibility to obtain

appropriate informed consent to therapy as early as feasible in the therapeutic

relationship. The AAMFT Code of Ethics approach to informed consent includes all of

the following except...
a. the client has the capacity to consent
b. the client has been made aware of alternative services which could meet his or her

needs
c. the client has been informed of potential risks and benefits of treatments for which

generally recognized standards do not yet exist
d. the client has freely and without undue influence expressed consent

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 128 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

59'. Your client has sought your help in resolving communication problems with her
husband. The issue has been a problem since their marriage 10 years ago. Your
assessment reveals that neither the client nor her husband meet the criteria for a DSM
diagnosis, but you believe that you could make a case for an adjustment disorder
diagnosis.
a. you should give the diagnosis of adjustment disorder if it will help the client
access insurance payments
b. you should give the diagnosis of adjustment disorder if it will help the client
access insurance payments, but only if the client would be unable to pay for
services otherwise
c. you should not give the client a diagnosis of adjustment disorder even if the client
would be unable to pay for services without medical insurance coverage
d. you should not give the client a diagnosis of adjustment disorder and provide
services on a pro bono basis if she would be unable to access insurance or pay for
services

60'. Your client's thinking has a magical quality. Wishes are perceived as real and are
equated with deeds. She invests her wishes, thoughts, and dreams with concrete reality
because she is unable to understand the personal nature of these abstractions. She has
recently internalized an image of her mother and has achieved object constancy, that is,
her experience of her mother's presence in her life is not dependent on the mother's
physical presence. You should view this individual as presenting features that are
developmentally appropriate for...

a. an infant

b. a latency age child

c. a teenager

d. a pre-latency age child

61'. A Marriage and Family Therapy Internis supervisor has asked to observe one of her

interviews with a client. The intern should...
a. diplomatically inform the supervisor that this would be an unnecessary breach of
the clientis confidentiality
b. infonn the client well in advance that the supervisor will be sitting in on an
interview A
c. obtain the clientis verbal or written informed consent at the time of the interview
and in the presence of the supervisor

d. obtain the clients written informed consent before permitting the supervisor to
observe

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 129

 

62'. You are conducting an assessment interview with a highly verbal, articulate and
psychologically minded client. In the course of conducting your assessment interview,
important facts about the client are available to you through...
a. observation
b. laboratory results
c. your countertransference reactions
d. speculative inferences

63'. You will be working with three adult members of a family together in a series of
family therapy sessions. They are a married couple and the husbands father. What
should be your approach to maintaining confidentiality among family members?
a. each family member is entitled to their own personal confidentiality with the
therapist
b. assuming all family members are legally competent to execute a waiver, each
should be asked to waive confidentiality among themselves and the therapist
c. the therapist should seek a waiver in order to share information among
participants who are legally married but maintain the confidentiality of husbands

father
d. family members should be asked to waive confidentiality among themselves and

the therapist, but only after a treatment plan has been agreed to by all

64'. Marriage and family therapists have an ethical responsibility to...

a. encourage the public to refrain from developing laws that regulate practitioners in order to allow for professional flexibility and autonomy in serving clients

b. encourage other members of the profession, but not the public, to participate in
developing laws that regulate practitioners
c. encourage the public to participate in developing laws that regulate practitioners
d. encouragement of laws governing practice is neither an ethical nor legal responsibility

65'. A disheveled and depressed person with schizophrenia applies to your mental health
clinic with the following request. "I'm ready to find a good job, get married, and settle
down for a change." Initially, you should...

a. clarify the person's request

b. reframe the request so that it refocuses on the problem of depression and

schizophrenia
c. assure the person that their needs can be met at your agency
d. help the person understand that such a goal is unrealistic

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 130 I MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

66'. You are establishing a new private practice and you are seeking referrals for clients
who might benefit from short term, interpretive psychotherapy. In order to achieve a
positive response in using short term, interpretive psychotherapy it is most important that
you...

a. select clients with good ego strength
b. select clients with a strong superego
c. focus on a specific, observable behavior
d. be a charismatic psychotherapist

67'. Mr. Lambrosky, a 64 year old retired carpenter, asks you to meet with him and his
wife. He says, "I think we need financial counseling or something." He says that his wife
insists on mounting debt whereas he is very concerned about protecting funds for their
future. During the initial session you should...
a. help the client reframe the problem to better understand that the underlying
relationship needs work
b. agree to meet with him and his wife to review how they are approaching their 
financial situation   
c. redirect the client to a financial consultant
d. explore the client's personal history to determine the origins of his non-
assertiveness


68'. Your client is a 28 year old Asian woman who rarely makes eye contact with you
during your initial session. You should recognize that this client's avoidance of eye
contact may be an expression of...

a. either personality, immediate social circumstances or cultural norms

b. personality or immediate social circumstances, but not cultural norms

c. cultural norms or immediate social circumstances, but not personality

d. personality or cultural norms, but not immediate social circumstances

69'. As a marriage and family therapist you should not engage in sexual relationships
with clients...
a. except by mutual consent
b. except when the client is a spouse
c. unless you are a duly registered and certified sexual surrogate
d. under any circumstances

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 13 1

 

70'. Your approach to psychotherapy with anxiety disorder clients has been effective, yet
you have given very little, if any attention to the initial cause of your clients presenting
problems. Your approach is probably based on which of the following theories?

a. Psychodynamic Psychotherapy Theory

b. Ego Psychology

c. Behavioral Theory 
d. Self Psychology

71'. Which of the following criteria would be most relevant when determining which of
several possible treatment goals and objectives to pursue in your work with a client in
crisis?

a. pursue goals that can be treated in the shortest amount of time

b. pursue goals that can be achieved within the parameters of third party payor

requirements
c. pursue goals that can be achieved by using methods within your scope of

practice and competence
d. pursue goals most directly related to using a cognitive behavioral approach
because of the demonstrated efficacy of this approach

72'. As a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist you are supervising a Marriage and
Family Therapy Intern who is concerned that most of her clients feel anxious during early
therapy sessions. You should help her understand that anxiety during initial sessions...

a. should always be reduced through support and reassurance

b. is a common characteristic of therapy clients which can motivate change

c. is likely to inhibit engagement

d. reflects the client's character structure

73'. You have been treating a client for a variety of psychosocial problems stemming
from the clients medical condition. During four years as your client she has gone
through extended periods of stability with little to talk about during sessions. At other
times when she does have issues that are troubling her, she has sometimes become
guarded and quiet during sessions. The treatment has been approached in an open ended
manner, with no predetermined time frames set for termination. You should recommend

termination of services to this client when...
a. the client requests termination
b. client resistance has severely inhibited progress

c. your services are no longer needed
d. you develop problematic countertransference reactions to your client

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 132 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

74'. Geri G. is a fifty-five year old woman who has been hospitalized for treatment of
fractures and a concussion following an automobile accident. She calls you, her former
therapist at a family service agency, to complain about the poor arrangements by hospital
social service staff for her return home. You should...

a. urge the patient to discuss this problem with the hospital social services worker

b. schedule an appointment with the patient
c. ask the patient to go along with the hospital's plans but to call the social service

staff member after leaving the hospital
d. call the patient's doctor to learn the nature of the illness

75'. Your client engages in a variety of pathological behaviors. She sees her symptoms
as ego dystonic in that they don't make any sense to her. She can't understand why she
acts the way she does, and she doesn't want to continue acting the way she does. Which
of the following should you expect to be this client's most likely diagnostic category?

a. personality disorder

b. obsessive compulsive disorder

c. substance use disorder

d. factitious disorder

76'. A young man complains to you that he has only been sleeping five hours a night, but

.feels that he needs a full eight hours of sleep to feel rested. He also is concerned that he

has gradually been withdrawing from friends and family, that he is disinterested in his
usual activities, and that he has been feeling fatigued. Your first activity should be to...
a. encourage engagement in a therapeutic process
b. refer for a medical evaluation
c. gather collateral assessment information
d. assess for suicide risk

77'. Your new client is a forty-six year old man who came to see you because "I'm afraid
I 'm going crazy." Two weeks ago he began to hear voices telling him about terrible
things that are about to happen. He firmly holds a false belief about his wife trying to
poison him. He believes the voices are as real. He has never experienced psychotic
symptoms before they began two weeks ago. You should anticipate that this client will
most probably...

a. always be psychotic

b. recover

c. remain the same
d. further decompensate

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 133

 

78'. Joe G. is a new client, age thirty-three, who has been feeling confused and
emotionally distraught since his close friend died of AIDS three weeks ago. He was very .
dependent on his friend for advice, emotional support, and financial support. He is
troubled because he now feels fall alone and I don't know what to do." You should...

a. convey reassuring confidence that the problem will be resolved

b. be authoritative, active and directive

c. be active and directive, but not authoritative

d. focus on the client's strengths, not the crisis

79'. Your client is a 65 year old woman who reveals to you that her alcoholic husband is
treating her in a way that meets the criteria for mental suffering under the Elder and
Dependent Adult Abuse Act. Which of the following is true?
a. You must make a report to Adult Protective Services.
b. The law permits you to make a report to Adult Protective Services but does not
require a report, and your code of ethics allows you to make the report.
c. The law permits you to make a report to Adult Protective Services but does not
require a report, and your code of ethics prohibits you from making a report.
d. The law permits you to make a report to Adult Protective Services but does not
require a report, and your code of ethics requires that you to make the report.

80'. As a marriage and family therapist you receive referrals from physicians and nurses
who are seeking your psychosocial assessments of their major surgery patients. They ask
that you pay special attention to these patients' judgment, object relations, cognitive
functioning and perception. Which of the following factors should you consider to be
least relevant to assessing these issues?

a. age

b. gender

c. reality testing

d. cultural background

81'. You are on the staff of a residential treatment program. Another staff member asks
you if you can help her understand your client's behavior and wants to know if you have
any suggestions for helping him in a group she is leading. In View of your client's legal
rights to confidentiality you should...
a. have informed your client early in the initial interview that you may be speaking
about him with other staff with or without his permission
b. tell your colleague that you can't discuss any of your clients without first
obtaining the client's permission
c. obtain the other staff member's confirmation that she will maintain confidentiality
of the information, then provide the requested information
d. ask the other staff member to obtain a release from your client and provide it to
you

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 134 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

82'. One of your private practice clients, a 40 year old insurance salesman with major
depressive disorder, has been seeing you on a fee-for-service basis. Although the client
has sufficient resources, he has failed to pay an overdue balance. It would be ethical for
you to terminate services to this client due to his failure to make payment...

a. if the financial contractual arrangements have been made clear to the client

b. unless the client promises to correct the problem

c. if the client has another therapist readily available
d. under no circumstances

83'. Your client's primary purpose in seeing you has been to reduce anxiety, especially
involving autonomic hyperactivity, and agitation. After working together for four months

you learn that your client has been using amphetamines almost daily for the last nine
months. The first thing you should do is to...

a. make continued sessions contingent on the client's termination of amphetamine
use

b. refer the client for medication to compensate for the anxiety arousing properties of
amphetamines A

c. encourage the client to explore the motivations that have lead to the amphetamine

use until the client develops insight into the problem
d. hospitalize the client for detoxification

84'. You have been treating a depressed man with a history of severe impulse control
problems. He has been in trouble with the law over the years, partly due to domestic
violence. A court of law has now ordered you to disclose confidential information about
the client, but when you inform the client of this he says that he refuses to give consent.

In your clinical judgment, disclosure of the requested information could cause harm to the
client. You should do any one of the following except...

a. request that the court withdraw the order

b. request that the court limit the order as narrowly as possible

c. request that the court maintain the records under seal, unavailable for public
inspection

d. provide documentation containing the information to the client, and ask the client
to present it to the court

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 135

 

85'. Your client is a fifty year old man who is in recovery from an alcohol addiction
which has been a problem since age 10. He is concerned about a persistent problem of
guilt. He avoids competition and is righteously moralistic when referring to successful
people he knows. What developmental age would most likely be the source of the client's

underlying conflict or fixation?

a. infancy

b. toddlerhood

c. preschool or early elementary years
d. adolescence

86'. In which of the following clients would you be least likely to find psychotic
symptoms? The client with...
a. schizophreniform disorder

b. schizoaffective disorder

c. schizotypal personality disorder

d. schizophrenia

87'. Your client has been in therapy with you for 10 months. The primary goal is to
eliminate the client's panic attacks which are due to a panic disorder. There has been no

change in the client's frequency or intensity of panic attacks since initiating therapy. You

should...
a. increase the number of weekly sessions

b. refer the client to another therapist
c. refer the client to an intensive process oriented psychotherapy group to augment

your work together
d. either change your treatment methodology or refer the client to another therapist

88'. Mr. K is a 39 year old man who sought therapy for help with a long standing pattern
of self-defeating behavior. He also complains of emotional lability and a series of

unstable relationships with women. He is now divorced from his second wife. In

conducting a clinical assessment with Mr. K you should...
a. develop an understanding of his early developmental experiences as a way of

better understanding his present problem
b. avoid explorations of early life experience and focus on present observable

behavior patterns
c. focus primarily on early developmental experiences and deemphasize the present

problem which is only a manifestation of deeper issues
d. develop an understanding of his early developmental experiences as a way of

formulating a diagnosis of mental disorder

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 136 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

89'. When using clinical case material for purposes of teaching...

a. obtain a confidentiality commitment from your students so that confidential client
information will not be passed on

b. obtain a confidentiality Waiver from the client so that identifying information can
be used

c. check with the students to be sure that they do not know the client before making
the presentation

d. appropriate steps should be taken to protect client identity and confidentiality

90'. In treating a 39 year old man who entered psychotherapy for help with a long
standing pattern of self-defeating behavior, emotional lability and a series of unstable

relationships with women, the best therapy approach for you to use would be...
a. systematic desensitization
b. flooding
c. long term interpretive/ exploratory psychotherapy
d. short term supportive psychotherapy

91'. Your client is a 44 year old man who sounds like an adolescent when he complains

about his parents. He denies any clear abuse or neglect, but states that "they were never

there for me," "they just couldn't cut it as parents," and "they had problems." He blames
his current problems with underachievement and social relationships on the Way his
parents raised him. Your approach to this client should recognize that he...

a. may have problems with self-acceptance and acceptance of common human

limitations
b. should be helped to appreciate what his parents did for him that was positive

c. had physically abusive parents but is covering up the full story of their abuse
d. should be helped to uncover more specific memories of his parents' mistreatment

of him

92'. You are employed by a large public mental health service organization which
emphasizes a system of care and service delivery through multidisciplinary teamwork.
You are expected to exercise independent judgment with regard to...

a. determining when to make a mandated report

b. formulating policies

c. formulating procedures but not policies

d. determining workload and case assignments

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 137

93'. You should use the term "ethnic culture" to refer to the culture of a community of
people who have a common identity based on a common...
a. history

b. religion

c. nationality

d. political interest

94'. You are working with a chaotic and dysfunctional family in which an adolescent
daughter has begun acting out sexually and engaging in petty theft from her grandparents.
You have offered family therapy, based on Social Systems Theory, as a potentially
effective treatment approach for the family's problems. You will be intervening to

change...
a. a key individual in the family
b. sequences of behavior among people in the family
c. the parental coalition in a family
d. the family's "identified patient"

95'. You are working with a chaotic and dysfunctional family in which an adolescent
daughter has begun acting out sexually and engaging in petty theft from her parents. You
have offered family therapy as a potentially effective treatment approach for the family's
problems. You may foster the development of integration in this family system through...
a. helping family members learn to recognize and respect their differences
b. establishing roles and norms
c. drawing family members' attention to common goals and mutual needs
d. avoiding a dominance hierarchy within the family

96'. Your client is a young Latina professional woman who needs help developing self-
esteem, learning self-assertion skills, and developing a more clear self-concept. She 

would most benefit from a group where which of the following characteristics are found?
a. strong leadership by an authoritative therapist
b. courtesy and polite behavior, rather than open airing of conflict and crises
c. norms favoring experimentation and flexibility

d. co-therapists

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 138  MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS


97'. In reviewing the previous clinical records of African American clients, you should
recognize that persons of this ethic culture tend to be overdiagnosed as having...

a. schizophrenia when the true problem is major depression
b. major depression when the true problem is schizophrenia
c. PTSD when the true problem is an adjustment disorder

d. an organically caused disorder when the true problem is a functional disorder

98'. If your client is too young to give informed consent you...
a. do not need to obtain informed consent

b. should obtain a supervisor's permission to provide the planned service

c. should obtain informed permission from a legally authorized person if such
substitute consent is legally permissible

d. should obtain informed permission from the child's parents

99'. You have received a referral of a new client who presents with delusional jealousy
and occasional auditory hallucinations in which he hears the word "hatred" repeated over

and over again. Your approach to this client should recognize that he is...
a. suffering from a serious, long term mental disorder
b. abusing drugs
c. acutely psychotic
d. experiencing schizophrenia

100'. Which of the following approaches to the therapist-client relationship would you
expect from a middle age African American client with healthy object relations?
a. avoids dependency in favor of independence

b. seeks dependency and minimizes independence
c. invites dependency whenever possible

d. varies the degree of dependency and independence depending on the issue at hand
and on the situation

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 139

 

101'. You are the therapist for a psychotherapy group designed to help individuals with
a variety of interpersonal relationship problems learn about the nature of their behavior
and the effect it has on others. One client has been trying to project a positive,
constructive image of himself to other members, and is trying to win others' approval.
You should take this to mean that the client is...
a. challenging your leadership

b. characterologically manipulative

c. avoiding the primary task of the group

d. striving to accomplish the primary task of the group

102'. You are the therapist of a client who is about to sell her car to a naive buyer at
twice the true market value. In order to accomplish this she has set him up by failing to
tell him about a serious hidden defect that reduces gas mileage by half. You should...

a. inform the prospective buyer of the deception

b. encourage the client to inform the prospective buyer of the deception, and inform

him yourself if she decides not to do so
c. help her identify the deceptive nature of her behavior and explore its meaning and

consequences
d. tell her that she is being manipulative and advise her to inform the prospective

buyer of the deception

103'. You would be most likely to use the empty chair technique for purposes of self-
exploration when practicing which of the following approaches to therapy?
a. Behavior Modification
b. Classical Psychoanalysis
c. Client Centered Therapy
d. Gestalt Therapy

104'. Which of the following should you consider to be an example of making a
purposeful use of self in a psychotherapy relationship?
a. providing information and referral

b. teaching assertion skills

c. empathic listening
d. asking open ended questions

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 140 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

105'. Your client, an insecure 29 year old businessman, is anxious about a major sales
presentation he needs to make in two weeks. He wants to reduce his anxiety level prior to
making the presentation. He states that he is not interested in working on long term
personality change. Your best therapeutic approach would focus on...

a. helping him understand the etiological basis for his problematic reaction

b. encouraging him to talk in a nondirective, open ended exploratory manner to gain

insight and ease tension
c. advising him to relax and reassuring him about his presentation skills
d. teaching relaxation techniques for reducing performance anxiety

106'. You are about to initiate family therapy with the Andersons who have sought your
help in resolving a long standing family conflict. Mrs. Anderson and her daughter have
been arguing to allow her mother to come live with the family in their downstairs "in-law

apartment." Mr. Anderson and his daughter from a prior marriage have been arguing to
preserve the Sin-law apartment" for one of the daughters. Each of the daughters argue to
have the apartment if, in fact, the grandmother is not allowed to move in. In your
approach to this case you should...

a. always identify with the family system as a whole, and not take sides

b. acknowledge, to the client family, when you are taking sides

c. seek consultation when you are taking sides, but do not reveal your leanings to the

family 
d. take the side of the most vulnerable and needy family member

107'. Your client characteristically uses the following four defense mechanisms. Which
of these should you work toward replacing with more effective defenses, due to the fact
that it is most primitive?

a. sublimation

b. denial

c. intellectualization
d. rationalization

108'. You are working with a young woman who needs help in resolving a sense of
direction in life. She needs to make a major career choice prior to a graduate school
application deadline that is coming up in several months. According to Humanistic
Existential Psychotherapy approaches you should relate to your client in an accepting
manner because a therapist's acceptance promotes...

a. self-esteem

b. self-acceptance which leads to a sense of wholeness

c. openness to the therapist's influence

d. the client's sense of altruism

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 141

 

109'. In reviewing studies that control for socioeconomic status, you should expect to
find that the true prevalence of mental disorders among African Americans as compared
to Americans of European descent will be...

a. greater

b. less

c. about the same
d. greater for most disorders but less for some

110'. You have four clients, each presenting with pessimistic anticipation, autonomic
hyperactivity, emotional lability, insomnia, and occasional fleeting hallucinations. Which

of these four clients should you expect to have the best prognosis?
a. the one Whose symptoms had a sudden onset after being precipitated by a stressor
b. the one whose symptoms developed gradually over an extended period of time in

the absence of any exceptional stress
c. the one whose symptoms are persistent, pervasive and first occurred in
adolescence
d. the one whose symptoms are ego syntonic

111'. You rent office space from a psychologist colleague, someone whose Work you
hold in high esteem. Under California law, which of the following principles should you
not use as an aspect of your rental agreement?
a. a certain number of hours of building maintenance in exchange for a portion of
your rent
b. a certain number of hours of family therapy consultation each month in exchange
for a portion of your rent
c. an agreement to set the rental rate at a certain percentage of your gross fees
collected
d. a promise to make a certain number of referrals to the psychologist each month in

exchange for a portion of your rent

112'. Your client is troubled by both a deep depression as well as distressing
hallucinations that impair psychosocial functioning. Both the mood symptoms and the
psychotic symptoms are very prominent and both first appeared at about the same time.
Your diagnostic formulation should recognize that this client's diagnosis is probably...
a. mood disorder with psychotic features
b. schizoaffective disorder

c. schizophrenia with an associated depression
d. schizotypal personality disorder

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 142 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS
 

113'. In some cultures the open expression of emotional distress, especially by persons in
subservient positions, may be socially or politically difficult, as this could imply
dissatisfaction with the status quo. In some Asian cultures these emotions find alternative
means of expression such as...

a. anxiety or anger

b. acting out

c. dissociation or somatization
d. intellectualization or rationalization

114'. Unprofessional conduct is defined in California law as including all of the
following except one. Which one?
a. aiding an unlicensed person to engage in conduct requiring a license
b. advertising your availability to receive referrals from other professionals
c. intentionally causing emotional harm to a client
d. failing to disclose your fee to a client prior to commencement of treatment

115'. Johnny is a 4 year old boy who has been in a nurturing foster placement

for 5 months. He was placed in the home after his mother abandoned the family and his
alcoholic father felt that he was unable to care for the children. Johnny lacks spontaneity
and fails to respond to his caretakers' efforts to reach out to him and offer affection.
Speech is normal but Johnny is usually very quiet. He occasionally plays with toys or
watches television, but never in concert with another person. Your assessment should
recognize that Johnny probably...

a. has been abused or neglected

b. is mentally retarded

c. is autistic

d. is experiencing a simple adjustment problem

116'. Several of your clients are children who do not meet the criteria for any DSM
diagnosis, but express distress when separation from major attachment figures is
anticipated. They are reluctant to be alone without their major attachment figures, and
refuse to go to sleep without being near a major attachment figure. Such behavior is most

likely to be developmentally appropriate for a child in which of the following age ranges?
a. birth through six months
b. eight to eighteen months

c. three to six years
d. adolescence

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 143

 

117'. Ever since adolescence your 38 year old client has been excessively suspicious
about persecution in most social situations. He tends to suspect, without sufficient basis,
that others are exploiting, harming, or deceiving him, and is preoccupied with unjustified
doubts about the loyalty or trustworthiness of friends and associates. These features are

best described as...
a. paranoid personality traits
b. delusional thinking
c. paranoid hallucinations
d. a paranoid stress reaction

118'. Your colleague is a Marriage and Family Therapist with whom you have
collaborated on many cases. The two of you have also seen one another socially and at

community events. When this colleague refers a client to you, how are you permitted to

reward the colleague for the referral? .
a. by making a referral to her in exchange for her referral to you

b. by paying a one time only fee
c. by sharing a portion of the client's fee
d. no reward may be offered in exchange for the referral

119'. You are working with a family in which the children are raised with

overpermissiveness and indulgence. Sometimes the parents' a approach to the children
appears to be the result of their own self-involvement, and sometimes it reflects a firm but

mistaken belief that permissiveness and indulgence lead to healthy psychosocial
development. If the parents persist in this parenting style, you should expect that their
children will be prone to develop all of the following qualities except...

a. antisocial behavior
b. aggressive behavior
c. difficulty entering into interpersonal relationships

d. exploitive behavior

120'. You are leading a bereavement support group involving nine individuals who are
grieving the death of a spouse. Both men and women are among the group members.
Some of them attend church, and some do not. You are most likely to find that the

person's loss will have led to depression in which of your group's members?
a. the women who attend church
b. the women who do not attend church

c. the men who attend church
d. the men who do not attend church

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 144 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

121'. You are treating a seventeen year old boy who is generally anxious and insecure.
He now tells you that he is worried about a forthcoming algebra examination. In order to
effectively express support you should say...

a. "Do as well as you can."

b. "I'm sure you'll do well."

c. "Just remember, it's only an examination."

d. "Don't worry. You've got more on the ball than you give yourself credit for."

122'. You have been treating a sixty year old woman with a schizotypal personality
disorder. After seeing you for several months the client requests to see her clinical
record. You should limit her access...

a. only in exceptional circumstances when there is compelling evidence that such
access would cause serious harm to the client
b. under no circumstances 
c. to portions of the record referring to diagnosis
d. to portions of the record referring to the therapist's fantasies about the client

123'. You are working with the forty year old husband of a rape victim. The couple has
been married for fifteen years. Her husband clearly wants to be helpful to his wife.
Which of the following should you encourage from the husband?

a. strong expressions of anger at the offender

b. expectations of quick resumption of sexual activity in the marriage

c. assurances that the traumatized spouse will be alright in the long run
d. empathic listening 

124'. Your new client is a forty-five year old Asian woman who clearly presents with
low self-esteem and a sense of worthlessness, but you have not yet developed a

differential diagnosis. If these symptoms are core features of this woman's mental
disorder, you are most likely to find that her diagnosis is...
a. generalized anxiety disorder
b. dysthymic disorder
c. hypomanic episode
d. schizophrenia

125'. In conducting an assessment and developing a diagnostic formulation, which of the
following should you consider to be vegetative signs of depression?
a. recurrent thoughts about death, fatigue, insomnia
b. recurrent thoughts about death, psychomotor retardation, hypersomnia
c. psychomotor retardation, insomnia, change in appetite

d. change in appetite, hypersomnia, feelings of worthlessness

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 145

 

126'. You are meeting with a consultant to determine the appropriate intervention
methodology in a complex case. Once the client has given you consent to release
information to the consultant you may...

a. reveal whatever information the consultant requests
b. reveal whatever information the client has consented to be released

c. not reveal information private information about the client such as fantasies or ,

dream material
d. reveal whatever information is necessary to achieve the purposes of the

consultation

127'. In conducting developmental assessments, which psychosocial conflict should you
expect to be preeminent just before the conflict between intimacy and a sense of isolation

from others becomes preeminent?
a. the conflict between autonomy and concern for others' judgments of oneself

b. the conflict between identity and identity diffusion
c. the conflict between a sense of integrity and a sense of despair

d. the conflict between contributing back to the community and a sense of stagnation

128'. Before assigning a "not otherwise specified" diagnosis to a client, you must first
determine that...

a. anxiety or depression is present
b. cognitive impairment is present
c. there is a psychodynamic etiology to the problem
d. clinically significant distress or impaired social functioning are present

129'. You have published an article based on your work with a sample of your clients. In
the article you are careful to state the limitations of the study, but a colleague has
overlooked those cautions and has written articles in your profession's newsletters which
draw false positive conclusions regarding the effectiveness of your work.

a. you should submit a letter to the publisher of the newsletter clarifying that your
colleague's opinions are his or her own, and do not necessarily represent your own
opinions

b. you should contact the colleague to correct the misinterpretation of your findings,
and submit a letter of clarification to the publisher of the newsletter

c. you have no obligation to correct the misinterpretation because you did not
contribute to the misinterpretation

d. you should reexamine your findings to determine if there is a way in which your
colleague's more positive interpretation could be substantiated

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 146 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

130'. The California Business and Professions Code states that the license of a Licensed

Marriage and Family Therapist can be revoked or suspended if the MF T...
a. uses alcohol or drugs

b. uses illegal substances
c. meets diagnostic criteria for substance abuse or dependence

d. is convicted of more than one misdemeanor involving the use or consumption of
illegal substances

131'. Your client is a manipulative young man who repeatedly refers to you as "my
psychologist." Although you have clearly told the client that you are marriage and family
therapist, not a psychologist, the client continues to refer to you as a psychologist. You
should... L
a. refer to yourself as a psychologist in order to use language acceptable to the client
b. continue to correct the client each time he calls you "my psychologist"
c. refer the client to a psychologist

d. not refer to yourself as a psychologist, and explore the meaning of the client's
persistence

132'. A marriage and family therapy colleague at a community mental health clinic is

having a sexual relationship with a supervisee. Your response should recognize that your
colleague should...

a. terminate the sexual relationship immediately

b. request that the supervisee be transferred to another supervisor and arrange for an
orderly transfer of training

c. terminate the relationship, but only if she has authority to direct the supervisee's
Work

d. ask her own supervisor to recommend a course of action, then follow the
recommendation

133'. Federal HIPAA legislation allows a marriage and family therapist to deny a client's

access to "psychotherapy notes." "Psychotherapy notes" refers to...
a. the therapist's process notes and dynamic formulations regarding a client
b. any information documented in relation to the provision of psychotherapy services
c. progress notes, but not assessment information, relevant to the provision of

psychotherapy services

d. assessment information, but not treatment plan and progress notes, relevant to the
provision of psychotherapy services

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 147

 

134'. Under California's Patient Access to Records Act a marriage and family therapist...

a. is liable for damages that result from disclosure of patient records to the patient

b. is not liable for consequences that result from disclosure of patient records to the
patient if care is taken to block out information which might have negative
consequences

c. is not liable for any consequences that result Horn disclosure of patient records to
the patient '

d. is liable for damages that result from disclosure of patient records to the patient
only if the record contains misinformation

135'. Your client is a fifty year old man with a histrionic personality disorder who sought
your help in dealing with work related stress. Whenever your client is harassed at work
by his boss, he comes home and initiates arguments with his wife. This client is using the
defense mechanism of...

a. denial

b. displacement

c. projection

d. identification

136'. A marriage and family therapist must provide a minor with access to health care
records...
a. upon request from any minor who is the therapist's client

b. upon request from the parent or guardian of any minor who is the therapist's client
c. upon request from the minor client, but only with the approval of the minor's
parents or guardian

d. upon request from the minor client, but only those records pertaining to health
care of a type for which the minor is lawfully authorized to consent

137'. Under the Elder and Dependent Adult Reporting Act, a report must be made if an

elder's needs are not being met 
a. by any member of the elder's household
b. by any blood relative of the elder who is aware of the unmet needs
c. by any person having the care or custody of the elder
d. by any person who provides psychotherapy services to the elder

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 148 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

138'. By Virtue of the Tarasoff decision a marriage and family therapist must...
a. notify police if a client presents a serious danger of committing a violent felony
against another person
b. notify a client's intended victim when a client is likely to cause serious harm to
that individual

c. notify a client's intended victim when a client is likely to cause serious harm to
that individual, and again when the client is deemed to no longer pose a danger
d. take care to protect the intended victim whenever the client poses a serious danger

of violence

139'. Your anxious client is scheduled for an amputation of the left leg in three days.
You can help your client reduce the stress resulting from her surgery by.

a. helping the client build her self-esteem
b. giving the client realistic expectations for the surgery and its aftermath
c. assuring the client that she will be able to handle the stress effectively

d. arranging for the surgery to be postponed


140'. When working with clients in a stress reduction clinic, you should help your clients
understand that all of the following have been found to reduce the level of stress
experienced by a person except for the person's...

a. level of education

b. sense of adequacy and worthiness

c. ego defense mechanisms  

d. understanding regarding the nature of the stressful situation

141'. Section 5150 of the Welfare and Institutions Code...

a. permits any marriage and family therapist to involuntarily hold a person who is a
danger to others due to a mental disorder .

b. permits a peace officer to involuntarily hold a person who is a danger to others
due to a mental disorder

c. permits a peace officer to involuntarily hold a person who is judged by a licensed
mental health professional to be a danger to others due to a mental disorder

d. permits a licensed mental health professional to hold a person who is judged by a
peace officer to be a danger to others due to a mental disorder

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 149
 

142'. Your client has recently experienced a severe trauma. She was the victim of an

attempted rape but was saved when a police car happened to drive by the scene by
chance. The perpetrator fled but your client was severely distressed by the assault. Your

therapeutic approach should include all of the following elements except...
a. encouraging an expression of anger and retribution against the perpetrator

b. being supportive
c. allowing the client to repeatedly talk about the trauma

d. referral for use of sedatives to promote proper rest, if sleep is seriously disturbed

143'. Your clinical assessments and treatment plans should recognize that one of the
following emotions has been found to be especially highly conditionable, that is, readily
transferred to previously neutral stimuli. Which one?

a. guilt

b. fear

c. depression
d. shame

144'. Your clients, a married couple, came to therapy claiming that "we need to improve
our communication." Early assessment revealed a problem of recurrent violent outbursts
on the part of both partners. By the fourth month the couple has shown some
improvement but violent outbursts continue and are now described as "open expressions
of anger." Suddenly both partners say that they have achieved their goal in therapy and
want to terminate. You should take this to mean that your clients are experiencing...

a. a healthy expression of autonomy and will

b. resistance and a flight into health

c. a rejection of the therapist

d. countertransference

145'. You have been asked to develop diagnostic formulations of family dynamics as a
consultant to a group of pediatricians. Among other issues they have asked you to
identify patterns of enmeshment or disengagement. These are problems of family

system...

a. design
b. authority hierarchy

c. resonance
d. structure

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 150 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

146'. Your client has been depressed over a series of what she calls "failed relationships"
in which she has been subject to exploitation and scapegoating. Your client's goal is to
reduce depression and improve her sense of confidence. You should recommend that the
treatment plan include, as appropriate objectives, any of the following except...

a. improved self-assertion skills

b. improved self-esteem
c. reduced free floating anxiety
d. improved self-acceptance

147'. Your depressed client has threatened suicide and claims that she intends to take an
overdose of sleeping pills, prescribed by her internist, sometime within the next few days.
She has made such threats before on three occasions over the past two years. She has
made one ineffective suicide attempt which you consider to have been an attempt to gain
attention and dependency. Which of the following should be your first course of action?
a. arrange for hospitalization
b. refuse to hospitalize in order to avoid reinforcing the client's use of threats as a
manipulation
c. refuse to hospitalize but offer psychotherapy sessions three or four times per week
as a support
d. terminate and transfer to the former psychiatrist who will best be able to manage
the suicide risk

148'. You suggest termination to a client with whom you've been working for 9 months
because she has substantially reached her primary goals and objectives. You should
expect that her termination will be least likely to give rise to which of the following
conditions?

a. an opportunity to learn about handling loss

b. a trigger for regression
c. a stimulus for rejection of the therapist

d. an opportunity to renegotiate the treatment plan

149'. You are working with a bereavement support group. The members are free of
diagnosable mental disorders but could benefit from supportive services. Which of the
following symptoms would you not expect to find among these clients who are
experiencing normal bereavement?

a. fleeting hallucinations

b. depression

c. impaired immediate recall

d. agitation

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MET PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 151

 

150'. You are working with a thirty-two year old male, African American client with
paranoid schizophrenia. You should consider which of the following to be the least
helpful intervention for this client if he has recently become depressed after being evicted

from his apartment for loud outbursts in the middle of the night?

a. case management

b. medications

c. interpretive psychotherapy
d. psychosocial rehabilitation

151'. Your new client states that he has sought psychotherapy because he strives for a
greater capacity for intimacy. In the course of your work with this client, which of the

following developmental issues should you address first?

a. establish a firm sense of identity

b. establish a firm sense of generativity

c. resolve fixations related to the oedipal conflict

d. develop insight into the developmental cause of his or her sense of isolation

152'. Your client is a forty-five year old business manager who would like to develop a

greater capacity for self-assertive behavior in social relationships. In order to monitor the
clients eventual progress you should first establish a baseline by measuring which of the
following?

a. frequency, magnitude and duration of problem behaviors

b. frequency, magnitude and intensity of problem behaviors
c. the client's motivation, capacity and opportunities to deal with the problem

behaviors
d. the number of times the behavior is emitted under specified circumstances

153'. In the course of developing greater self-assertive skills with your forty-five year old
client, you will be using behavioral rehearsal. Your approach should involve all of the

following techniques except...
a. verbal instruction or demonstration

b. feedback

c. practice
d. extinction

154'. You are using a Cognitive Behavioral approach to therapy in which you and the
client will be working to modify dysfunctional automatic thoughts. Your work will

involve...
a. psychoactive medications
b. the same learning principles used to modify behavior
c. operant conditioning but not respondent conditioning

d. reward but not punishment

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 152 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

155'. A new client has requested that you use the technique of flooding in his treatment.
He explains that he has a friend whose therapist has used this technique very successfully.
You should explain to the client that flooding may or may not be an appropriate technique
to use in his treatment, depending on the nature of his problem, and that flooding is best
used to...

a. treat depression which results from misconceptions
b. treat phobic anxiety

c. teach self-assertion skills
d. treat disorientation in a person with delirium

156'. You will be engaging a client in a time limited exploration of the client's
unconscious psychodynamic conflicts. Your work with this client should be
characterized by all of the following principles except one. Which one?

a. be active

b. be an unemotionally involved teacher, educating clients about their "neurotic"
patterns

c. emphasize support over confrontation
d. note the therapist/client relationship process as it relates to the client's key
conflictual themes 

157'. You are working with a variety of clients who are new immigrants from Asian and
Pacific Islander cultures. Many of these clients have been treated by indigenous healers
in their native land, and some continue to see indigenous healers in your community.
You will probably find that these healers seek to...
a. reduce the individual's self-control and emotional restraint to enhance ventilation
b. restore internal harmony and unity between person and environment, including
social, material and spiritual aspects
c. reduce a sense of intergenerational dependence in favor of autonomy
d. enhance social functioning rather than relieve a sense of distress

158'. Prior to entering into a therapeutic relationship with your client you have an ethical
obligation to clearly disclose and explain all of the following except one. Which one is
the exception?
a. all fees related to professional services

b. the level of training and competence which justifies the fee

c. the use of collection agencies or legal measures for nonpayment

d. the procedure for obtaining payment from the client if payment is denied by the
third party-payor

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 153

 

159'. You are working with a client in long term, insight oriented Psychodynamic

Psychotherapy in which the purpose of therapy is improved psychodynamic efficiency.
This means that you and the client will be working toward...
a. achieving a better relationship between psychic energy expended and the extent to

which a person achieves gratification
b. the client's investing of more psychic energy in fixations than in conflicts

c. bringing preconscious thought and feeling into consciousness
d. the rapid development of a therapeutic alliance

160'. Your client becomes agitated and angry when you confront her with a discrepancy.
Last week she told you that she was raised by her grandparents and today she told you
that she was raised by her mother and stepfather. She now denies ever saying that she
was raised by her grandparents. You should...

a. confirm your claim by showing the client your clinical notes from last week's

session
b. maintain that you heard her make both statements but don't press for

acknowledgment if she continues to deny it
c. let the client know that you must have been mistaken

d. interpret the likely reason for her deception

161'. You are interviewing a client who has a difficult time focusing on a specific

problem or any specific issue. The client's comments tend to be vague, general and
indirect. If you wanted to develop better focus in the interview, which of the following

kinds of comments should you make?

a. What's going on at your new job?
b. I suppose there are a lot of changes going on for you in your new job.
c. Describe how your work day is different now that you're on a new job.
d. How are things going for you lately?

162'. In offering Rational Emotive Therapy to a client with a major depressive disorder,

you will be...
a. disputing the client's false beliefs through rational confrontation
b. accepting the client's need to maintain false beliefs, and acknowledging their

function for the individual
c. teaching rational beliefs without first identifying the client's irrational beliefs

d. focusing on the way in which emotions and motivations cause our thoughts

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 154 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

163'. You must make a child abuse report only if you develop a reasonable suspicion that
child abuse has occurred as a result of information that you have received...
a. directly from the child

b. from an adult caretaker of the child
c. in your professional capacity I
d. at any time, whether in your professional practice or private life

164'. A primary care physician has requested that you provide a consultation involving a
thorough DSM Cultural Formulation. Your report back to the requestor should address
all of the following issues except one. Which one?  

a. the client's cultural identity

b. cultural interpretations of social stressors

c. effects of the differences in culture and social status between the therapist and
client with regard to clinical data gathering

d. cultural identity of the client's significant others

165'. A mother comes to see you with her nine year old daughter. She reveals that her
husband has been fondling their daughter for the past six months. She wants you to meet

with her husband and "give him the help he needs." Your first course of action should be
to...

a. step out of the room and call Children's Protective Services from another office

b. encourage the mother to call Children's Protective Services but make the call
yourself if she refuses to do so

c. encourage the daughter to call Children's Protective Services in your presence but
insist that the mother make the call if she refuses to do so

d. call Children's Protective Services in the client's presence but do not encourage
them to make the call themselves

166'. A marriage and family therapist is a covered entity under federal HIPAA
regulations if the MFT...

a. engages in one or more electronic transmissions of private client information.
b. maintains client records with personally identifiable information

c. submits claims to one or more insurance plans
d. serves five or more clients in any given one year period

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 155

167'. Your client is a Latino man with a major depressive disorder. He tells you that he
has seen a curandero who has also treated many others in his family. In his work with the
curandero, you should expect to find that this client has likely experienced which of the

following techniques?
a. exorcism and witchcraft

b. cupping and herb remedies
c. communication with spirits of the dead

d. inducing spiritual trance and out of body experiences

168'. Your new client is an anxious and guilt ridden thirty-five year old fashion designer
who is cautious about entering into new relationships. She also exhibits signs of a social
phobia. In order to develop a therapeutic alliance with this client, which of the following

should you use in the first few sessions?

a. empathic listening, acceptance and warmth
b. advice, suggestions and reassurance about their capacity to solve the presenting

problem
c. role play, structured fantasy and guided imagery

d. clarification, confrontation, and interpretation

169'. Your new client is an anxious and guilt ridden thirty-five year old who has worked
with several other therapists over the years. She feels that therapy has benefitted her, but

that it never seems to be enough. She would like you to discuss possible adjunctive
therapies if she is to begin work with you. Which of the following modalities should you
consider as an appropriate adjunct to your psychotherapeutic work with this client?

a. electroconvulsive therapy

b. antabuse
c. biofeedback

d. lithium carbonate

170'. Your client Bill G., a deeply depressed man, has been contemplating suicide. His
risk is moderate and not imminent at the moment. Your approach to Bill should include

all of the following except one. Which one?
a. discuss the natural tendency of depression toward remission

b. note the client's ambivalence
c. maintain boundaries and structure by limiting contacts to a regular appointment

schedule
d. formulate a clear and specific treatment plan

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 156 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

171'. Your new client is a sixty five year old woman who was recently found to be the
victim of isolation. This means that she has probably been subjected to...

a. intentional acts which have prevented her from receiving her mail or phone calls
b. failure on the part of a person responsible for her care or custody to assist in her
personal hygiene or in the provision of food, clothing or shelter

c. quarantine which is performed pursuant to the instructions of a physician
d. use of a physical restraint for purposes of punishment

172'. In taking a Humanistic Existential approach to your depressed and anxious middle
aged client, you will be focusing on...
a. how you and the client should negotiate an optimal treatment plan
b. what you should experience for the relationship to be optimally therapeutic
c. what you should do to alter the client's negative self-perceptions
d. how to best interpret the relationship between client dreams and reality

173'. You are about to form a new Gestalt Therapy group. In the course of your
pregroup interviews you should inform them that they should follow all but one of the
following principles when participating in the group. Which one?

a. acceptance of responsibility for one's own behavior

b. taking risks

c. intelligent analysis of response patterns

d. respect for self-regulating capabilities of the individual

174'. In the course of your long term, insight oriented therapy with a thirty-four year old
psychologically sophisticated Latina client, which of the following is most likely to serve
as a realistic, non-transference source of rebellion...

a. ambiguity and covert promises from the therapist
b. frustrated requests for advice and direction

c. forming an explicit therapist/client contract

d. the therapist's adherence to appointment times

175'. You are teaching the anxious and overbearing parents of an unruly five year old
child to use negative reinforcement as a way of improving the child's behavior. This
means that you will be teaching your clients to...

a. reward a behavior by removing an aversive stimulus

b. suppress a behavior by presenting an aversive stimulus

c. effectively use punishment 1

d. help their child anticipate negative consequences of dysfunctional behaviors

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 157

176'. You are conducting a cognitive assessment as part of a mental status exam for your
new client, a seventy-year old woman living in a nursing home. When you ask the client
"How many nickels are there in $1.35?" you are testing for... 

a. attention, concentration and fund of information

b. attention and concentration, but not fund of information

c. level of consciousness
d. recent memory

177'. You are reviewing the clinical record of a new client, a seventy-year old woman
who lives in a nursing home. The clinical record of her mental status exam states that she
is "oriented times three." You should take this to mean that...
a. she has been oriented at three points in time
b. she was oriented to person, place and procedure
c. she was oriented to time, person and place
d. she has good insight, memory and attention span

178'. As an MFT working in a county operated mental health service system, the consent
of the client must be obtained before sharing confidential information with...
a. another staff member at your program
b. another provider who is working anywhere in the county's service system
c. a professional person not employed by your facility who does not have the

medical or psychological responsibility for the patient's care
d. a professional person not employed by your facility who has the medical or

psychological responsibility for the patient's care

179'. In the course of developing treatment plans with your clients you are guided by
principles drawn from Solution Focused Therapy, in which a client's well formed goals
should have presence, not absence. Your treatment plan goals should be similar to which

of the following examples?
a. "feel relaxed" not "reduce anxiety"
b. "increase confidence" not "improve self esteem"
c. "improve social skills" not "improve quality of social relationships"

d. "reduce anxiety" not "increase self-assertion skills"


BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 158 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

180'. You are working with a cyclothymic client whose depressed moods are clearly
associated with dysfunctional automatic thoughts. In order to assist the client to modify

these automatic thoughts using Cognitive Therapy you should first use which of the
following techniques?

a. generating alternatives
b. examining the evidence
c. reattribution

d. thought recording

181'. As a staff member in a county mental health service system, if a client consents to
the release of confidential information to a designated person, the MFT...

a. may not release the information unless confirmation is obtained by a member of
the client's immediate family, conservator or public guardian

b. is not required to release information that has been given to him or her in
confidence by members of a patient's family '

c. is required to reveal the information as directed

d. must document his or her evaluation of the client's sanity prior to acting on the
consent

182'. Your 21 year old client is preoccupied with trying to determine the subtle motives
of authority figures, including professors and her employer. Her preoccupation stems
from an unresolved fixation arising from her relationship with an exploitive and harsh

foster parent during her elementary school years. This client's fixation involves a
problem of...

a. secondary process thinking
b. psychic structure
c. cathexis

d. superego

183'. Your client is troubled by a sense of emptiness, identity confusion, and the
meaninglessness of life. From the perspective of Psychosynthesis, a Humanistic
Existential Psychotherapy approach, you should help your client to achieve...

a. repression of the sublime

b. dis-identification from all that is not the authentic self
c. mobile fixations

d. unconditional positive regard

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS  Page 159
 

184'. You are providing crisis intervention services following a major earthquake. Your
clients are middle class and working class individuals whose homes were lost, either due
to fires or because their homes are now structurally unsound. In working with these

clients you should not...

a. support their defenses
b. focus on restoration and enhancement of functioning; instead, focus on changing

fundamental personality problems
c. help the client gain a cognitive grasp of the problem
d. View a crisis intervention approach as being of lesser quantity than long term

therapy

185'. Your 12 year old client reveals that she has been severely beaten by her uncle who
lives with her and her parents, and you have a reasonable suspicion that she has been
abused. When making a telephone report of child abuse in this case, which of the
following information must you provide to the child protective agency?

a. the child's diagnosis
b. the name of your supervisor, if any
c. the identity of the perpetrator, if known

d. your license number

186'. When working with clients at the senior mental health clinic, you will be required
to make reports under the elder abuse provisions of the law whenever you obtain reliable

reports from your clients that they have experienced any of the following conditions

except one. Which one?

a. abduction

b. fiduciary abuse
c. abandonment
d. fraud

187'. You are working with a caseload of homeless men and women at your city's
mental health mobile outreach team. Which of the following conditions should you take

as the most likely indication of the need for referral to your team's physician for a
physical examination?
a. olfactory hallucinations 
b. auditory hallucinations
c. excessive guilt
d. illusions

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 160 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

188'. The license of a marriage and family therapist may be revoked if the MFT...

a. provides a current client with a referral to another professional for services that
the MFT was qualified to provide 

b. provides clients with a copy of the "lie scale" questions from the MMPI

c. provides a client with printed information about subject matter outside of the
MFT's scope of practice

d. neglects to provide a current client with written information regarding the
prohibition against sexual relations between a therapist and client

189'. You are working with a caseload of homeless men and women at your city's
mental health mobile outreach team. Many of your clients require referrals to your team's
physician for medication evaluations. You should make such referrals...

a. in all cases involving symptoms of mental disorder

b. when symptoms that are known to be responsive to medications have not been

responsive to psychosocial services alone
c. in all cases involving depression
d. when the client presents a risk of psychomotor retardation

190'. You are working as a member of a multidisciplinary team at a comprehensive

health care and psychosocial support program for elders. When making referrals to other

professionals either within the program or elsewhere in the community your referral
request should....

a. be focused on a specific issue and purpose; e. g. "please rule out organic cause for
this client's panic attacks"
b. be made in a general manner, allowing flexibility and clinical judgment on the

part of the person receiving the referral; e. g. "please provide a general medical
evaluation"

c. be left for the client and the person receiving the referral to determine; e. g. "please
evaluate Mr. Johnson per Mr. Johnson's request"

d. state your inability to provide the service yourself; e. g. "please evaluate for
physical problems as such an evaluation is not within my scope of practice"

191'. You are about to initiate services to a forty-three year old African American
woman who has a lifelong problem of moderate depression. She has been ambivalent
about seeking therapy for her problem for a variety of reasons. You should expect that
this client will be most likely to experience a flight into health during which of the
following phases of therapy?

a. just prior to termination

b. just prior to beginning therapy

c. during the initial phase

d. during the middle phase

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 161

 

192'. You are working with a regressed Chinese American client who is troubled by
schizophrenia. The client also has a rich fantasy life and multiple delusions and
overvalued ideas. You should choose a therapy approach that...

a. provides opportunities for deeply self-exploratory examination of themes

b. focuses on confrontation to challenge the client's false beliefs

c. focuses on practical problem solving, including medication compliance

d. focuses on developing an understanding of the causes of schizophrenia through

psychoeducational techniques

193'. You will be working with an anxious middle aged client who has been troubled by
a sense of depersonalization and a lack of socially supportive relationships since moving
to your community. In taking a Humanistic Existential approach you should move from...
a. self-alienation to personal integration
b. a sense of being overwhelmed to gaining a cognitive grasp of one's life
circumstances A
c. ambivalence and stress to self-certainty and relaxation *
d. repression to sublimation

194'. When treating minors or adults involved in custody or visitation actions, you...
a. may not provide the court with information about the minor
b. may not also perform forensic evaluations for custody, residence or visitation of

the minor

c. should also perform forensic evaluations for custody, residence or visitation of the
minor

d. may also perform forensic evaluations for custody, residence or visitation of the
minor

195'. You will be helping a rigidly defended 28 year old Latino graduate student reduce
the symptoms of an anxiety disorder. You and the client will be working toward
restructuring dysfunctional cognitions. Which of the following should you address first?
a. automatic thoughts
b. core beliefs
c. adaptive schemas
d. maladaptive schemas

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

Page 162 MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS

 

196'. You and your client will be working toward restructuring dysfunctional cognitions.

Your use of the approach known as cognitive empiricism means that you will...

a. remain free of emotion and be analytical, while refraining from humor

b. develop hypotheses with the client about the validity of the clients cognitions

c. focus on testing the validity of automatic thoughts held by the client over the past
several years

d. encourage dependency and regression so that the client may gain direct experience
with these problematic personality traits

197'. You and the client will be working toward restructuring dysfunctional cognitions.
In the initial stage of therapy you teach your client to maintain a Daily Record of
Dysfunctional Thoughts (DRDT). You should teach the client to keep a record which
includes...
a. a list of his automatic thoughts with a rating of how strongly he believes them to
be true
b. a description of other people's reactions to the client when the client has his
automatic thoughts
c. a list of your recommended positive thoughts, each listed next to the clients
related negative thoughts
d. a list of circumstances that invoke a sense of relaxation in the client

198'. You will be working with an anxious adolescent client who has been troubled by a
sense of depersonalization and impulse control problems since his family moved to your
community from another part of the country. In taking a Humanistic Existential approach

to this client you should emphasize a focus on...

a. the social determinants of the clients problematic behavior

b. how lack of opportunity and client capacity for change has contributed to the

development of the problem

c. the clients responsibility for her own behavior

d. a rational analysis of the clients adaptive schemas

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

MFT PRACTICE EXAMINATIONS Page 163

 

199'. Your client tells you about a dream in which he was chased by an angry tree
through a large mansion. You ask the client to imagine that he is the various parts of his

dream....that is, himself, the tree, and the mansion. Your use of this technique should be

based on the assumption that...
a. playful use of imagination is inherently healing .
b. a dream with three aspects represents the spiritual elements of the holy trinity

c. elements of a dream express projected aspects of ones own experience, and

therefore constitute meaningful self-revelation
d. taking the role of other dream elements allows us to see ourselves as others see us

200'. One of your clients says that she cannot afford to pay for your services, but would
like to provide you with goods or services in exchange for your time. Although as a
marriage and family therapist you should ordinarily refrain from accepting bartered goods
and services, you may ethically accept goods or services from this client as payment for
professional services if...
a. the arrangement is entered into at the client's request 
b. if it is the standard means of receiving payment from your clients, and not applied

only to this one or other selected clients on your caseload
c. if the value of the goods or services is less than the fair market value of your

clinical services
d. under no circumstances

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s client as payment for
professional services if...
a. the arrangement is entered into at the client's request 
b. if it is the standard means of receiving payment from your clients, and not applied

only to this one or other selected clients on your caseload
c. if the value of the goods or services is less than the fair market value of your

clinical services
d. under no circumstances

 

BERKELEY TRAINING ASSOCIATES @ 2009

